---
title: 'Remembering Claire Wineland'
date: '02-10-2018 16:59'
publish_date: '02-10-2018 16:53'
---

**By Jeph Novak, Head Copy-Editor** _originally published in Issue 2, Volume 31 of The Univeristy Register on Friday, September 28, 2018_

“Death is inevitable, but living a life we are proud of is something we can control.” -Claire Wineland

 Imagine breathing through a straw for a minute. If you have a straw nearby, I encourage you to grab it and actually try it. Plug your nose and only breathe through the straw. Make sure you’re breathing through your mouth and not cheating. Walk around. If you’re bold enough, run for a short bit while breathing through that straw. Walk behind people smoking while breathing through it. You’ll get weird looks maybe, but hey, other people will read this issue of the UR and will understand, right? ;) Seriously though, try it. Now imagine living that way: feeling like you’re suffocating but not quite. You have just enough air to breathe but as soon as you do anything, you need more. 

Imagine going on a date with that cute girl you’ve been talking to for a while now. You go to dinner and you can’t seem to get enough food. You’re eating like crazy. Or the opposite: absolutely nothing sounds good and it’s not your nervousness making you feel like that. You look weird and rude no matter what. You start coughing just a little, but then it grows louder, harder, it gets deeper into your lungs and the surrounding tables are staring at you and your date puts down her fork and gives you a weird look. You get up to rush to the bathroom, find an open stall, and puke up loads of mucus and bile into the toilet because you can’t actually throw up. 

Other than the random coughing fits, the date goes well and you go back to her place for the night. You’re getting it on so you take off your shirt and she stares at the feeding tube, insulin pump, and port-a-cath on your stomach. You’re so used to these “attachments” that you forget you look like a machine with these things hooked up to you constantly. She seems to change her mind, not wanting to “rush things,” and you both put your clothes back on. That’s okay, though, because you couldn’t stay the night, anyway. You have to get home to do your life-saving vest treatment, which involves hooking up to a machine that violently shakes your chest in order for you to cough up that sticky mucus. It doesn’t matter that it’s nearly 1 a.m. and your roommate is sleeping, you have to do it or you’ll get hospitalized next week. Your lungs can’t afford a vacation.

Imagine having cystic fibrosis, or CF. Sports are nearly impossible. Gaining weight is nearly impossible (sounds great until your BMI is at 16% despite eating a literal 7 meals a day). Dating, drinking, sleeping in, going to the beach, and staying at a friend’s house are all nearly impossible with CF. Now, imagine all of that, and only having a lifespan of 40.

Cystic fibrosis is a genetic, terminal lung disease that affects 30,000 people in the United States, and approximately 10 million people in the US are carriers of the gene. It causes extremely thick, sticky mucus to build up in the lungs and other vital organs, like the pancreas. This makes it extremely difficult for patients with CF to breathe---generally, a patient’s lungs function only operate between 60-80% of capacity, if that. Mucus in other organs causes malnourishment and various other organ failures. CF shortens the lifespan of its victims to just 40 years old, and some, like activist Claire Wineland, aren’t even lucky enough to get that much.
At the young age of 20, Claire Wineland passed away on September 2, 2018 due to cystic fibrosis complications post-lung transplant. Despite being so close to having new lungs, a fresh start, a new life, CF still took her.  A speaker, an advocate, and an inspiration, Claire touched the lives of many. To the CF community, she gave hope. To people outside of the CF realm, she made cystic fibrosis---and dying---a real subject. She talked about it not like it was a disease, but something we live with, something that is a part of us. She talked about death as it should be talked about: realistically. In Claire’s words: “Death is normal. Death is literally the only universal thing that every organism experiences.” The fact that death is something that we all experience and none of us know when it’ll strike us is a very real thing and shouldn’t stop us from living our lives the way we want, just like Claire did. People often act like we can’t talk about death without having to be sad or feel awkward, but Claire encouraged people to speak of it like it was tonight’s dinner: casually, openly, and often.

Claire used cystic fibrosis as a motivation to make sure she made the most of her life, and she wanted to make sure everyone else did, too, despite the cards they were dealt. Claire spoke at many TEDx events, was featured on the CW’s “My Last Days,” and even wrote a book entitled Every Breath I Take, Surviving and Thriving with Cystic Fibrosis. She touched the lives of everyone around her, carrying her messages in everything she said and did. Her disease didn’t stop her from doing all of these things, like becoming a public figure and an inspiration to so many, including people such as Bernie Sanders, Shane Dawson, and Dr. Oz. 

She even inspired me, someone who also struggles with cystic fibrosis. She made me want to get out and do something, to fight for a cure, to tell others about it, and to spread the happiness that seems to come as a side effect of CF. I don’t want CF to control my life, so I don’t let it. I play sports, I write and edit for the University Register, I have the best roommates, awesome friends, an incredible fiancee, I do well in school, and I have found who I am, despite and because of cystic fibrosis. Claire helped me remember that having CF doesn’t have to mean that’s all I have going for me. If anything, having CF makes me want to do all of these things just to prove that I can. 

Claire Wineland was an amazing person for the cystic fibrosis community and the general population. Her inspirational messages of hope, of living despite our circumstances, and of defying the odds help show that anything is possible. The foundation that she created herself, “Claire’s Place Foundation,” is still doing good for the CF community and is a testimony to Claire’s work and dedication to making the world better for all with cystic fibrosis. If you feel so inclined, you can visit the website of her foundation at: www.clairesplacefoundation.org.

A few final thoughts from someone with CF. Be hopeful. Accept death but live despite it. Live care-free (but not careless). Smile at everyone you see---it makes you and them happier. Take a Tuesday night trip to Alexandria to eat Perkins, despite your class at 9:15 the next day. Listen to a bunch of music (might I suggest Jukebox the Ghost, Taylor Swift, Willie Nelson, New Politics---just a few that I’m listening to a lot right now). Perform in Open Mic Night, or find a local karaoke night and do that. Go on a cross-country trip. Eat a lot of McDonald’s. Combine two Mega Stuf Oreos. Make friends with the on campus police. Do the things you want. Live. Take a deep breath for those of us who can’t. \

_Photo on top Courtesy of Google Images_