---
title: 'UMM Concert Choir celebrates 40 years of music-making'
date: 09/28/2018
---

**Written by Geordi Jones, Feature Editor** _originally published in Issue 2, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, September 28, 2018_

Author: Geordi Jones
Section: Feature

The University of Minnesota Morris’s Concert Choir is approaching its 40th anniversary this coming spring, and we at the University Register wish to celebrate the several decades’ of musical achievement by providing a brief history of the ensemble, as well as some personal insight to the ensemble’s inner workings, all from yours truly: Geordi Jones, feature editor of the University Register and second alto of the UMM Concert Choir! 

The choral program at UMM was started by Ralph E. Williams in the early 1960s. At the time, it consisted of the UMM Men’s Chorus and the University Singers, a mixed ensemble. The UMM Concert Choir was started by Ken Hodgson in the spring of 1979, and has been making fantastic music ever since. The first choir president was Daniel Conrad, and the Concert Choir continues to honor his legacy by awarding the Daniel Conrad Leadership Award each year to an exceptional student leader within the choir. Over the years, the Concert Choir has toured regionally, and has been invited to perform as American Choral Directors Association (ACDA) and Minnesota Music Educators’ Association (MMEA) conferences, as well as with the Minnesota Orchestra at Orchestra Hall in Minneapolis. The Concert Choir tours annually, and over the past 40 years has toured all over the nation and world, performing in several states in the U.S., 7 Canadian provinces, and several countries in Europe. The Concert Choir plans to tour in Brazil in the spring of 2020. 

As a current member of the ensemble, I can attest to the level of hard work and dedication that goes into making the UMM Concert Choir such a strong ensemble. The Concert Choir meets four times a week from 5:00 p.m. to 6:15 p.m., with an additional hour of sectional practice each week for the four sections of the choir: soprano, alto, tenor, and bass. This amounts to six hours a week dedicated to learning and polishing difficult vocal repertoire. Outside of this mandatory practice, ensemble members are expected to practice their music on their own time diligently in order to make the best music we possibly can. We’re a group of approximately 50 hand-selected musicians working together to make fantastic music, but we are also a family. Every effort is made by choir council members, student leaders, and new members of the choir alike to create a safe, inclusive, and compassionate group of friends. 

Interested in hearing more about the Concert Choir, and listening to what all of our hard work produces? The next Concert Choir event is right around the corner! On November 11, the Concert Choir will be collaborating with the Symphonic Winds ensemble for a program celebrating the centenary of the Armistice of World War 1, exactly 100 years to the day since the signing of the armistice that ended World War 1. This program will be held at the elementary school concert hall, and will feature vocal and instrumental music and readings. The Concert Choir will be performing Walter Kittridge’s “Tenting on the Old Camp Ground,” Stephen Paulus’s “Hymn for America,” and Craig Carnahan’s “Armistice 1918 (Everyone Sang)”. If you’re looking for a way to celebrate your winter holidays on-campus before the end of term, consider joining the Concert Choir for their Holiday Soirée concert on December 1, with shows at 3:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., which will feature famed Broadway composer Leonard Bernstein’s “Chichester Psalms”. There will also be a festive dinner available before the evening performance. 