---
title: 'International Student Week'
date: '09-11-2018 19:51'
---

**Written by** **Xaitheng Yang, Contributor**. _Originally published in Issue 5, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, November 9, 2018._

As International Student Week is now upon us, it is important for us as students to remember the importance of a diversity of perspectives. The University of Minnesota Morris has a unique history of facilitating this diversity, stretching back to the campus’ very beginnings. Over 100 years ago, the campus began as an American Indian boarding school, and in effort to acknowledge the maltreatment of Native American students in UMM's history, the university now offers free tuition to Native American students. This commitment is just one example of many which Morris proudly holds in support of diversity. 

International students play an important role in the school’s long tradition of students learning from one another. While the trek from places all around the world to a small town in rural Minnesota may seem daunting, the testimony of past students displays the indisputable value of this unique campus. 
One past international student, Ramitha Rupasinghe, is pursuing a PhD at Purdue University after graduating from UMM with a degree in Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry. Coming to Morris from Sri Lanka, he says, “My experience at Morris was amazing. It was a tight-knit community of wonderful people in the middle of nowhere! I enjoyed being able to do multiple majors and still have time to do other extra-curricular activities.” In addition to this, he found the small campus a benefit, stating that “being able to get individual attention from professors, having good resources, and having a lot of people you can get to know easily because of the small community aided me in getting to where I am today.” Reflecting back on the differences between a larger school and Morris with his new experiences at Purdue, he’s only found this to be more true, stating, “Attending a large school like Purdue and teaching undergraduate students has really shown me the benefits of what a school like Morris gave me in terms of my education.”

From a domestic student’s perspective, Taylor Yang has found that having a diverse group of friends and classmates was something she enjoyed dearly and learned a lot from. As a graduate student attending Columbia University, one of the most prestigious universities in the United States, Yang holds her experiences at Morris in high regard. Speaking on the benefits of Morris’ diversity, she shared that “being culturally rich is something I’ve always prioritized. You get to learn about what makes someone who they are and it’s always amazing to see that side of them.” Having had friends from countries such as Ethiopia, China, and Bangladesh, Taylor has been exposed to a variety of different cultures. 

A current international student, Esmira Alieva, describes her experience in Morris as enabling her to be “exposed to a lot of opportunities.” She further states that she was, “given so many opportunities to get involved with student activities on campus.” It’s this ability to get involved that she identifies as being especially different from her home in Uzbekistan. Being only a junior as of this year, Alieva has acted as a co-founder, and now president of, Morris’ Muslim Student Association, while at the same time double majoring in economics and management. A key aspect to this success is the community in Morris, as stated by Alieva, “There’s a lot of peer empowerment among students.” Further stating, “Students who are already leaders encourage you to apply for positions to get involved.” It’s exactly this diverse and supportive community that International Student Week is all about.

While we, as students, continue our academic journeys, we should also remember the wonderful opportunities our time in Morris allows us - the opportunities to find friends from around the world, to learn from one another, and to succeed together. These are the things that make Morris great, and should be celebrated for International Student Week.
