---
title: 'Lesley Gore: Underrated Feminist Icon?'
---

**By Marie Anderson, Contributor** _Originally published in Issue 6, Volume 33 of The University Register on November 20, 2020_

Lesley Gore is a lesbian feminist icon whose music you have probably heard of, but you may not know it. This is a fact that I, as a fan, have learned to expect anytime I consider mentioning her to people. Despite the fact that she had several number one hits, songs that are still played today, and her producer was Quincy Jones, the same man behind several of Michael Jackson’s solo hits, it is understandable that there are so many people who do not recognize her name or importance to pop culture. She is a singer who was most popular during the 1960s. It is also difficult to explain the importance of a singer whose most well known songs have been labelled as bubblegum music.With all that said, I think that the reason many people do not know about Lesley Gore is that they mistakenly disregard or credit someone else for music she made popular. 

Her first single “It’s My Party” alone has been used and remade many times since she released it in 1963. It has been covered by Donna Reed and Amy Winehouse, and sampled by Melanie Martinez in her song “Pity Party.” Another one of her songs called “Sunshine, Lollipops, and Rainbows” has been included in multiple films and television shows, including Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs, The Simpsons, and The Umbrella Academy. However, arguably the most notable and definitely the one that has been considered most in terms of a feminist message is “You Don’t Own Me.” 

The song “You Don’t Own Me” may stand out in your mind as that feminist anthem that got a lot of airtime in 2015 after a version of it was used to highlight the character Harley Quinn in the Suicide Squad movie. Even when I was annoyed that the original version of “You Don’t Own Me” was being disregarded in favor of capitalizing on the G-Eazy and SayGrace version, I was happy because it meant that more people from my generation were now more aware of this feminist song that had been renowned by previous generations. Unfortunately, if you look through her catalog, there isn’t really a consensus on views about gender norms. Songs like “The Bubble Broke,”  “Hey Now,” and “I’m Coolin’, No Foolin’” represent a sense of liberation from the expectation that they should cater to a man and songs like “Sometimes I Wish I Was a Boy” are an observation of the unequal amount of power that men had in 1960’s relationships. However, songs like“That’s the Way Boys Are” and “Maybe I Know” send the message that it is acceptable for men to be mean to women because it is part of their nature and women should be okay with that. 
When I listen to Lesley Gore’s music, I usually cringe through the more sexist songs or skip them all together. I tend to blame downfalls in the messages of her songs on the music industry of the time placing the expectation on her that this was what she should sing in order to be successful. Part of this is me being biased. I know that she did have some say in the music she put out and Quincy Jones, who produced quite a few of her hits, is very well respected and celebrated in the music industry today. But I know that her music was definitely influenced by the time period in one specific way. All of her songs were about boys. 

Lesley Gore has said in interviews that she had already realized she was a lesbian and was secretly dating girls at the time that she was releasing pop songs about being in love with boys. After publicly coming out, she said that she did not mind that her songs were all about boys because she was able to separate her work life from her personal life. But I do mind. Living in a world where Hayley Kiyoko can successfully sing about women makes me wonder what Lesley Gore’s music would be like if she was young right now. I once told someone that I felt like Lesley Gore career could be used as an example of historical homophobia to which they replied that they didn’t think she needed to sing about girls just because she was a lesbian. I was taken aback by this response because I did not mean my comment as an attack on the choices she made as an artist, but rather a criticism of the opportunities made available to singers in the past. Maybe she still would have wanted to sing about boys but she didn’t have the choice. 

So with all the double standards through which you could analyze the career of Lesley Gore, I wonder what message we should actually take away from her life and her presence in pop culture. Is she a symbol to look back on and reflect on how much we have progressed as a society? Is she a relatable role model for queer women today who are still closeted? Or is she someone whose legacy is mostly out of touch with the current day except for all the ways that her songs can be repurposed. As I said before, I am biased. I have been a fan of her since I was six years old and know way too much about her life to turn back now. I don’t expect people to love her as much as I do. I would just like to spread the word so more people at least know who she is when they happen to hear “You Don’t Own Me.”

_Photo on top courtesy of A Wider Bridge_