---
title: 'A Trans+ Person''s Place in Drag Culture Today'
media_order: Drag_new.jpg
published: true
date: '22-02-2018 20:43'
publish_date: '22-02-2018 20:43'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**Anonymous Submission** _uploaded at 8:43 p.m. on Thursday, February 22, 2018_ 

To first clarify and establish the identity from which I am coming, I am a Trans+ person, and my criticism comes from an honest desire to critique and improve the queer structures that have made us. If we cannot do that, then we are no better than the oppressive structures we often encounter. I would like to discuss Trans+ identity and how it intersects with drag culture.

Drag—or as it was more commonly known throughout history, cross-dressing—has been around since the beginning of time. Many historians believe that early civilizations like the Aztecs and Egyptians took part in the tradition. Drag also found its way into many theater forms such as the Japanese kabuki theater in which the men who portray women are called onnagata and are praised for their realistic and honest portrayal of their characters. Cross-dressing in theater ended however, in the early to mid 1900s because of new psychological theories that began to connect femininity and cross-dressing to homosexuality with a new concept called the “third gender.” Theaters immediately ended their burlesques of femininity, which drove cross-dressers and gays underground. That is, until the first gay bars were opened. 

This underground culture formed in the shadows, growing into a mode of expression that was unique and artistic in its defiance of social norms of the time. The world first got a glance at it with the Stonewall Riot of 1969. Having many iterations over the years including, but not limited to, burlesques, ball drag, and drag shows that were mostly performed in gay bars and other LGBT+ friendly locales. This year, though, we see the incredible sight of drag shows across the country and even on television with _Rupaul’s Drag Race_ in its eleventh season this year. 

Over the years, the show and the culture have withstood several claims of transphobia and transmisogyny. These claims have come because of incidents such as one of the judges using the T-slur, or an inappropriate game in which contestants attempted to distinguish between cisgender women and drag queens. _Rupaul’s Drag Race_ has let the world in on a private and often misunderstood culture, and shows both the good and the bad of the community. In the meantime, it has left Trans+ people in limbo, having to determine what is participation and what is gender expression itself. Although the exposure of drag culture to the masses is fantastic in a truly unprecedented way, we also have to consider the impact the exposure has on the community and its perception.

When I was younger, my first exposure to cross-dressing was the movie _Mrs. Doubtfire_, in which Robin Williams has to dress like a woman to see his kids during a difficult divorce. As much as I love that movie, it reminds me of a tweet from Sophie Labelle: “Every time you laugh at the idea of a man in a dress, a #transgender girl gets more scared to come out.” Fortunately, these jokes and the idea of transgender people being lambasted for nothing more than existing have become few and far between as of late, except in accepted mediums like burlesques and drag shows, making me wonder: why is this behavior okay in this context? Does the history of these art forms protect them from criticism?

To that, I say hell no. In many ways, this behavior is representative of the misogyny of gay men in particular, behavior that many cisgender white women pass off as “fun.” This means that discrimination is overlooked by those not affected by the discrimination because the oppressor is a part of a minority group. As much as we say we stand for equality for all, if we are honest about the reality of our community, we are guilty of both racism and misogyny, whether intentional or not. The performers (usually gay men) take on a persona, lambast it, over-exaggerate the uniquely feminine features, and then remove it. The artists separate themselves from the feminine identity and reclaim their masculine privilege. This alone leaves a bad taste in my mouth, but my anger is intensified by how hard it is for the Trans+ community to penetrate drag culture due to the criticisms they receive from both the intolerant and the allies. The question remains, “What is a trans person to do at a drag show?”

Now, over the years, there has been a handful of contestants on _Rupaul's Drag Race_ that were transgender women. Monica Beverly Hillz, a transgender woman, explained her involvement in drag like this: “Drag is what I do and trans is who I am.” She makes a great point about the difference between drag and trans identity. In a world with better representation, this may be a sufficient answer and perhaps a good way to deal with the silent battle waged within the LGBT+ community. However, with the saturation of cisgender gay men along with token Trans+ people, it feels like an exclusive club only fit for those willing to cross the gender binary and for those with nothing to really lose in the grand scheme of things. With that I leave you with this dilemma below:

Two trans people want to participate in the drag show. One wants to portray a character affirming their gender identity whereas the other wants to challenge their current gender identity. Now, I say let Trans+ people do what they feel they should at that time. However, you have to admit that this quickly becomes confusing to the uninitiated and even leaves questions for the seasoned veterans of the LGBT+ community. Is one invalidating the other’s identity? Is one more right than the other? Or is there no right answer without the immense context to understand the situation? Perhaps we should do as the past queers have done and not care what the rest of the world thinks of us. All difficult questions, some without any clear answers. No matter how hard it may be though, we should have these conversations. Our history isn’t an unquestionable ideal. It is fluid, and we should be able to adapt as our society does.