---
title: 'Disconnect with Social Media to Reconnect with Yourself'
---

By Melissa Voss, News Editor uploaded at 2:25 p.m. on Thursday, December 6, 2018

Ever since I got my first iPhone, I do not remember a time where I was not on social media. I remember the exact day I signed up for Facebook. It was my freshman year of high school and several of my friends I had met online in a group chat persuaded me to make one. Up until that point, the only social media website I knew about was Youtube, if you can even call that a social media site. All of a sudden, I was consumed by other people’s worlds, becoming personal with their political standpoint or their next favorite Super Bowl appetizer they are going to try and make is.

Not long after creating my Facebook account, I found myself creating an Instagram, Tumblr, and Twitter account; not because I wanted to post on them, but because I wanted to be connected to the world around me.  But what was originally a way to connect with family and friends turned into an unhealthy obsession with trying to live in idealistic way.

It wasn’t until October 23 of this year that I realized I had an unhealthy relationship with my phone and social media. With one of Apple’s recent iPhone updates, a program called “screen time” records the amount of time you use your phone for social media, productivity, entertainment, and other uses that one would use their phone for. After a week, I had gotten a notification on my phone saying that I averaged over six hours on my phone daily, four of those hours I had been on social media. Nearly one-sixth of my day was spent on social media solely on my phone, not even on my computer. I was not surprised, but appalled and disappointed in myself knowing it got that bad.  

There had been days I refused to get out of bed, feeling sorry for myself that I am not as successful or as happy as the people I would see on my screen. I would see my hometown friends enjoying time together while I was three hours away studying in the library or previous classmates venturing off and molding their lives as I was laying in bed watching it all on social media. I felt useless; I was genuinely unhappy with the life I was leading for myself and all I did was envy the lives of others.

So on day one of the next thirty-four days, I had completely logged out of all my social media accounts on my computer and deleted the apps off of my phone. I only allowed myself two exceptions: Facebook Messenger and Snapchat; both of which were used to communicate with co-workers who did not have my cell phone number. Other than that, my phone and computer were strictly for school work, texting, and calling.

But it was not an easy transition. In the beginning, I was optimistic — imagining all of the new opportunities I had with my time, whether that be catching up on that novel that had been sitting in the back of my closet or going on a soul-searching weekend away from Morris. But I did nothing. The second day social media-less, I was lying on my floor listening to Billie Eilish for three hours.  It took a couple of days to lead back into a life without social media.  I had to start small; starting with cleaning my room, then reading a chapter of a fun-read, going out for an hour to go see friends at Common Cup without my phone.  

Gradually I found things that occupied my time that not only got me out of my dorm room, but that I enjoyed. I was able to say yes to all of those experiences and opportunities that I would have just ignored because I felt as if I had no time. I was able to be productive with my schoolwork right as I woke up in the morning because I was not stuck in bed for an hour scrolling through Facebook and Instagram. I was able to find interests that fascinated me, allowing me to become more connected with who I am, not someone I simply wanted or thought I should be.

I have grown up in the age of technology and social media, but that does not mean I have to be consumed by it. We all have the choice to turn off the Wifi, delete an app, or put down the phone. This past week, I have slowly re-introduced myself to social media, but I have lost the desire to sit down and scroll. I found that unplugging from social media was the best thing I could have done for my self-esteem and my own happiness. And I urge others to do the same, even if it is just for a day.
