---
title: 'Examining the Relationship Between Mental Health Stigma and the DSM'
media_order: dsm.jpg
date: '06-11-2020 15:22'
---

**By Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief** _Originally published in Issue 5, Volume 33 of The University Register on November 6, 2020_

If you have ever taken a psychology class, you have probably heard about the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders (DSM). Lately, I have been thinking a lot about the DSM. It’s an incredibly useful resource in psychology since it provides a standard for mental health professionals to discuss and diagnose mental health disorders. However, like many things in the field, it has its problems. Some of these problems have been fixed in updated editions of the DSM. For example, past editions of the DSM included disorders that unfairly targeted and criminalized certain groups of people—in 1851, Samuel A. Cartwright proposed that two mental health disorders, Drapetomania and Dysaesthesia Aethiopica, were responsible for slaves rebelling against slave owners. Today, both of these disorders are understood to be completely illegitimate and products of racism. More recently, the DSM considered homosexuality a mental health disorder until 1973. Although none of these disorders are included in the DSM-5, there are still aspects of the manual that I find problematic.

A few months ago, one of my friends recommended a podcast called Gimlet to me. The episode she sent me, called “Making Friends,” discussed tulpas. The word tulpa, as the podcast explained, comes from a Tibetan word meaning “to build” and a tulpa is similar to an alternate personality. The story immediately reminded me, as it did one of the members of the podcast, of Dissociative Identity Disorder (DID). Both people with DID and people with tulpas share their bodies with at least one other person. 

I could rant for this entire editorial about the studies done with people with DID legitimizing the alternate personas, but I’ll sum it up in saying that people have been found to have biological differences from their alternate personas. Some people with DID have alternate personas who have conditions like diabetes or asthma even though they and/or their other personas don’t. Some people can allow an alternate persona to take control of one hand, then write about two different topics in two different handwritings with both hands at the same time.

The people interviewed in the podcast had similar experiences with their tulpas. One man, Oswald, said that he and his tulpa, Timbre, experimented with motor control by seeing which of them could move their arms more successfully. He would try to put his arms together and Timbre would try to pull them apart. Most times, Oswald would win.

But I digress—what I found most interesting in the podcast was the discussion about whether or not people with tulpas could be considered a person with a mental health disorder. According to multiple mental health professionals researched, the answer was no. Their reasoning was that because no one who had been interviewed about their experience with tulpas has experienced significant distress or dysfunction as a result of the tulpa’s presence, it did not fit the DSM criteria for DID or any other mental health disorder. 

The primary subject in the podcast was a woman whose first tulpa had appeared to her when she was 19 and contemplating suicide. She felt entirely helpless—until her tulpa, Jas, appeared to give her the support she needed and wasn’t getting from anyone else in her life. The podcast made it sound like this scenario was unique to tulpas. However, this often happens with DID too; alternate personas will manifest when a person is in a state of isolation or despair after experiencing repeated trauma. This leads again to the question: What is the difference between a person with a tulpa and a person with DID? Is it truly just the absence of distress and dysfunction? If that is the case, it speaks to an aspect I believe to be a problem with the DSM—the expectation that once a person is diagnosed with a mental health disorder, they will be less capable to function in society.

This is obviously problematic for many reasons. When a person feels that something beyond their control, in this case a mental health disorder diagnosis, automatically puts them at a disadvantage and causes people to view and/or treat them differently, it can make that person feel helpless. That said, every person is different and there are certainly people who feel that their mental health disorder diagnosis does not impede their lives or that the diagnosis gives them more security in their identity. But the fact that stigma is so strongly associated with mental health disorders is not beneficial for anyone. When I contemplate the difference between people with tulpas and people with DID, the main difference I see is not in the people themselves, but in the mindset surrounding their experiences.

I do not claim to be an expert in either of the situations and there could certainly be things I am missing, but it seems to me that in differing them by the lack of distress and/or dysfunction, the field of psychology is doing a few problematic things: one, it is implying that because people with tulpas do not fit into the description of any known mental health disorder, they are “more well” than people with DID, despite the fact that people from both groups can have similar experiences and can be fully capable of leading a successful life. Two, it is expecting that people with DID will necessarily experience distress and dysfunction, which perpetuates the stereotype that people with mental health disorders are not able to live free of distress and function successfully in society.

I would like to make it clear that I am not arguing that people with tulpas should necessarily be categorized as having DID, nor am I trying to imply that one group would be better or more able to succeed in society than the other. As I have said, the discovery of tulpas as a psychological phenomenon is, as far as I can tell, relatively new and I do not claim to be any sort of expert on the topic. I do think, though, that regardless of the differences between the two groups, this potential disorder highlights a flaw in the way our society views and categorizes mental health disorders. I recognize that having distress and dysfunction as a diagnostic criteria can help to emphasize the importance of mental health treatment—if people with mental health disorders are viewed as necessarily distressed and dysfunctional, providing treatment to help them manage their symptoms is an easier argument. (And while mental health treatment is obviously important and has helped countless people regain control of their lives and themselves, the US has a very troubled history with its execution and which forms of treatment it has considered most useful historically—but I digress again). I simply believe that reevaluating how strongly these stigmas are tied to mental health disorder diagnoses could ameliorate much of the stigma surrounding the people with these disorders.

_Image on top courtesy of Dynamic Works Institute_