---
title: 'Video Games in 2018: Making Profits, not Memories'
media_order: 'Video game.jpg'
published: true
date: '22-03-2018 23:35'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Ben Mladenich, Staff Writer** _uploaded at 11:34 p.m. on Thursday, March 22, 2018_

I remember video games being a much better part of my life during my childhood. Don’t get me wrong, I still did outside things like biking, playing soccer and hunting for bugs, but video games were fun, and I played them with my friends on a fairly regular basis. I remember popping the cartridge for Pokemon Emerald into my red Gameboy Advance SP, and playing on Saturday mornings. I remember these gaming sessions as being without fault or stress. Sometimes I did well, other times I needed to re-try a level with my uncoordinated ten-year-old fingers. But something has changed about gaming since I was ten. That change is a fiscal one, not something added by developers.

In many ways, gaming is the best it has ever been. Almost every game available on the market is simply beautiful. Teams of people set about making all of the colors match. They make themes and map effects and changing environments that take hundreds, if not thousands, of hours to complete, but I still look at these games with less affection than Super Mario Bros 3, which was a 2D side-scroller. The difference here is a focus on gameplay, as opposed to visual effects and budget. Since the release of Super Mario Bros. 3, though, gaming has become an incredibly profitable industry. It’s still growing, too. As a result, profitability has become a massive problem for gaming.

Every time I look into a new game now, I am assaulted by options for microtransactions. It’s as if buying the game starts after the entry price of $60. That’s just not a game I want to play. I think that if someone is going to spend money on a game, they should have all the material that will come out for the game. One of the most notable feelings I get playing modern games is that I’m far behind the other players because I don’t have extra money to spend on the games. But that is the way that video games seem to be headed. With better production values, more people work on the productions, and they have families, too. Perhaps this is the reason games such as Overwatch, Star Wars Battlefront II (EA), Killing Floor 2, Warframe, Fortnite, PUBG, Destiny 2, FIFA, League of Legends, and hundreds of others offer microtransactions after purchase.

One example I found of this recently was with Hill Climb Racing, a free iPhone game that I first played in high school. I downloaded it again on a whim, and found that it was mostly unchanged. There were minor ads in the menus, but nothing that directly interfered with gameplay. There were the options for buying minor currencies, but I found that I could make it through the game without them pretty easily. Then I tried Hill Climb Racing 2. The game was a definite improvement in many ways; some of the bugs that were prevalent in the first version were fixed, the visuals of the game were vastly improved, it added different game modes, and it even added a couple more customization options for the vehicles. However, the fun stopped there. Hill Climb Racing 2 was a microtransaction and ad riddled nightmare. Every couple races I would get locked into a thirty second interactive game ad I couldn’t escape. I would most often boot out of the app in order to skip it. Progress was also slowed, with loot boxes being the primary method of gaining modifications for my vehicle. These took either three or eight hours to unlock, or could be unlocked with real money.

I think that the real reason I’m less excited to play video games at the moment is because none of them really respect me or my wallet. I’d like to be able to play through some of these games, but I also can’t afford to put hundreds of dollars into them like I would need to. Controversies have begun to crop up, though, and government regulation seems increasingly likely for many upcoming games. Hawaii is a main component in this, and has even started proposing legislation in the wake of Star Wars Battlefront II’s abusive practices. Though more government regulation is far from the best thing that could happen to gaming, at this point I would just be happy for anything that makes gaming more about the games again and less about the profits.
