---
title: 'The Darkest Timeline: John Scientology and the Pursuit of the Ericksens'
date: '25-09-2020 17:28'
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _Originally published in Issue 2, Volume 33 of The University Register on September 25, 2020_

What do Tom Cruise, science fiction, the UMM English department, and the voice of Bart Simpson have in common? All sit under the watchful gaze of the church of Scientology. Now, I am no expert on this group, but I’ve done my research, especially recently, as new connections have sprouted from this subject. I was recently chatting about nonsense with English professor and general supporter of silliness, David Ericksen, and was shocked to learn from a total tangent that he was once approached by Scientology in an attempt to recruit him. (Yes, I understand that “Scientology” is not one single person, no John Scientology, but it is much more fun to refer to them as such! It can be a harmless game to picture who that person would be. Perhaps he is even friends with Tom Cruise himself.)

To clarify, the church did not approach the Ericksens in person; I suspect that would make a much more interesting story, and I am sorry that I cannot report on such an interaction. Instead, Scientology mailed a box to campus, to David Ericksen’s faculty mailbox in the humanities building. The contents of this box included pamphlets and information along with sci-fi books and DVDs from Scientology mastermind L. Ron Hubbard. (This is true, I’ve seen the box and its contents with my own eyes. I was tempted to borrow one of the DVDs, but I don’t have the time or energy right now to giggle at another group... I am currently ghosting some Mormon missionaries on Facebook messenger because if they found out that I’m gay and that my family was originally Irish Catholic they’ll get Bonus Jesus Points if they can convert me. I’m not trying to be mean, but I’m all good, thanks!)

I suppose that, if I think from John Scientology’s point of view, I can understand why they would target David Ericksen specifically. First, Morris is a small town. While I can always find plenty of things to do in my free time, there is a common misconception that there is nothing to do in small towns, so why not join a cult, right? 

Second, David Ericksen is someone who, in his courses, covers topics such as science fiction, religion, and films, so I could (sort of) see why of all the English professors he would be the one to receive L. Ron Hubbard books. While that man may have invented and run one of the most intense religions I can think of, he was also known for his writing. I am not trying to justify the attempted recruitment of my Morris family, however, and instead would like to take this discussion down a different path.

To the best of my knowledge and according to his memory, David Ericksen was the only professor contacted by Scientology. This interaction happened a little over ten years ago, and while I was not a Morris student back then, I can tell you where I was when this all went down. Strangely enough, Scientology was there too.

Okay, I will be the first to admit that the timing doesn’t line up perfectly here, but it is close enough that it raises some questions concerning a possible overlap. I doubt many of you know this, but there was a period of time shortly before Viacom bought out the popular online game “Neopets” where it was, in fact, owned by Scientology (theoutline.com). The whole deal was kept pretty quiet by Hubbard’s business board to the extent that even the co-creators were somewhat surprised by what they had gotten themselves into. The creators were still shareholders and still had some say in the management of the game, but certainly seem to have been outnumbered. While they fought to keep any of the religious teachings of Scientology out of the game, the creators were unable to prevent those in power from running the business much like the church. Maybe I’m getting myself into dangerous territory here, but I think it is common enough knowledge for me to say that surveillance has always been a large part of the church of scientology. This is true for celebrities who try to leave the group and have spoken out about the religion as
well as for the “Neopets” employees who were at risk of being fired if their personal views conflicted with the mission of the church. (A slight tangent, but in looking up current and previous members of the church, I did audibly gasp to see William Burroughs, Neil Gaiman, and Jason Lee and Ethan Suplee— both of “My Name is Earl.” Upon mentioning this to my mother, she informed me that I am “the only one who keeps track of that shit” and she’s not wrong, which is why I am sharing this news now.)

You’ll have to excuse me as I get sucked into these slight tangents. For those who have watched “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia,” you will recognize this as my Pepe Silvia moment. I was fully ready to bust out the red yarn tonight and start connecting the dots, but unlike Sunny’s Charlie Kelly, I don’t smoke and I don’t drink coffee, so instead I put on some music and got to my research. Back to the matter at hand: here we have the Ericksens and we have “Neopets,” both desired by Mr. Hubbard himself, and around the same time, too. Because time has passed, we know what happens next in the story: David does not call the church and Viacom eventually buys the game. But what about the timeline in which David said yes? I can only make educated guesses, but I think it is important that we consider the existence of this darker timeline parallel to our own.

It is no secret that David and Janet Ericksen are intelligent and charismatic, so had they joined the church of Scientology in this other timeline, I don’t doubt they would move quickly up the ranks, possibly even gaining leadership roles. One thing that I learned in my research is that, in a moment of conflict with the Scientologists, the “Neopets” co-creators developed three NPCs (non-player characters) based on some of those in leadership from the church. They kept the inspiration for the characters secret, as those characters were supposed to be villains, but revealed this information in an interview post-Viacom. Knowing this, could there possibly be a timeline in which our beloved David and Janet became villains within the universe of this children’s game? I think that this timeline is hidden out there somewhere, and I fear it. I have taken upon myself the task of determining what these characters may have been so I may provide insight into the darkest timeline.

Unfortunately, this is where I hit a roadblock in my investigation. The creatures from this game are little fantasy animals, and as fun as they are, I couldn’t bring myself to assign them to people I know in real life. I tried to learn about each creature in order to make an informed decision, but even someone as goofy as me has limits. For the sake of research, I ventured further, but it nearly killed me to do so. As a bit of a crutch, I let a Buzzfeed quiz made by a total stranger do the choosing for me. I did try to give answers that David and Janet would, but nobody really wants to assign a fictional animal to someone else, and the results gave me much to think about. David’s animal was one known for a heart of gold and Janet’s for solid leadership and loyalty. These characteristics are true to life, but it truly is a tragedy that I was then forced to make these two people into funky cartoon dogs, but I cannot bring myself to include the pictures in this article, so you will simply have to wonder
what these characters may have been.

At the end of the day, I can say with confidence that exploring this darkest timeline has drained me of my energy and my creative abilities. I have allowed my tangents to carry us this far, but we can never return here again. It is best for everyone if we simply pretend that none of this ever happened—no evil Ericksens, no anthropomorphic dogs, no cults running games, and no jokes about Tom Cruise. I can only hope that John Scientology does not find this article and hunt me down for my crimes against the church and humanity.

To David and Janet, I apologize for making you read this. You have always supported me in my nonsense, but I hope this isn’t the last straw!

_Image on top courtesy of Freedom Magazine_