---
title: 'Movies Should Not Be Blamed For Real-World Violence'
media_order: Joker.jpg
published: true
date: '11-10-2019 16:58'
---

**By Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief** _Originally published in Issue 3, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, October 11, 2019_

Last weekend, I saw “Joker” at the Morris Theatre. For those of you who haven’t seen it, don’t worry — I’m going to try not to include any spoilers in this article. But after the movie ended, I started thinking about portrayals of the Joker throughout the character’s history.

Somehow, this wildly violent embodiment of madness always winds up with a group of followers in Gotham. In the 2008 film “The Dark Knight,” Heath Ledger’s Joker bought the loyalty of his henchmen and ruled them with fear. But in other portrayals of the Joker, the villain has not had to try to attract followers.

In the 1999 animated series “Beyond Batman,” the Joker had a cult following, a street gang called Jokerz. In the 2014 TV series “Gotham,” the teenage Joker was given his own prophecy: “You will be a curse upon Gotham. Children will wake from sleep screaming at the thought of you. Your legacy will be death and madness.” At the end of the episode, the prophecy appears to be true, as citizens of Gotham murder each other in the streets, laughing along with the tape of the Joker being broadcast on television. And in the latest cinematic addition to the Joker’s story, he again attracts a following in the common people of Gotham, though I won’t say more than that.

My concern, however, isn’t with the in-universe followers. Gotham is a necessarily corrupt city — if it was running smoothly, there would be no need for Batman — so I think that it makes sense for the poor citizens of Gotham who feel victimized by Gotham’s higher-ups, like Thomas Wayne, to feel drawn towards a man who targets the wealthy and tends to act as a voice of the everyman. When contained within the boundaries of comics, movies, and video games, this idea that ordinary people would be attracted to a violent supervillain trying to clean up Gotham in his own twisted way is intriguing and even entertaining. But when the themes of the Joker’s cult spill over into the real world, it is no less than horrific.

Critics of “Joker” have reprimanded the film for glorifying violence and portraying the Joker in a sympathetic light. While I understand their point, I don’t agree that this is what the movie was going for. This is, to my knowledge, the first movie that gives us the Joker’s origin story in his own perspective. Never before have we been permitted to follow the Joker through his beginnings and try to understand his motivations for crime. Even when the character first appeared in the comic “Batman #1” in 1940, he was written in as a full-blown villain whose backstory was saved for a later date. This isn’t to say that we’ve been completely left in the dark regarding the Joker’s past. In “The Dark Knight,” the villain gives three different stories to the origin of his scarred smile, simultaneously giving the audience a peek into his childhood while maintaining an air of mystery as we try to decide which story to believe. In the 1989 movie “Batman,” we see Jack Napier fall into a vat of acid, then follow his transformation into the Joker. But Joaquin Phoenix’s portrayal of Arthur Fleck is entirely different. For the first time, we are able to see the Joker slowly develop inside the mind of an ordinary man.

I do not believe that this is meant to be a cry for sympathy for the villain, as many critics argue. I think it is merely an opportunity to view the Joker in a way we never have been able to before — with a full understanding of his past. If “Joker” has a sequel, it will have set up a character whose crimes as a supervillain can finally be analyzed through a singular known origin story. This film was not an attempt to gather sympathy for a murderer, but rather a means to try to understand the reasoning behind his villainy, just as many of us try to search for a way to understand the motives of a serial killer in our world.

That said, I understand why critics are concerned. The Joker has famously incited real-world violence before, with the Aurora, Colorado shooting which left 12 dead and 70 injured during a 2012 showing of “The Dark Knight.” James Holmes, the culprit, dyed his hair bright red before the shooting, which some speculate may be a symbol of the Joker, though Holmes has denied the connection. Before the 2019 film premiered, there were threats of another shooting on an unspecified theater in the United States, though the threat has yet to be acted upon.

This concept of violence in movies leeching over into real life is an appalling trend reminiscent of such horrors as the Manson cult. While heinous, these types of crimes cannot be solely blamed on the world of cinema. Movies give us a new world to immerse ourselves in, give us characters to try to understand, and leave us with questions to ponder through the lens of our own lives. The extent to which we blur the lines between fantasy and reality is up to us.

_Photo on top courtesy of Google Images_