---
title: 'The 2019 Drag Show'
media_order: queens_new.jpg
date: '05-04-2019 19:29'
---

**By Alisa Samadani, A&E Editor** _originally published in Issue 11, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, April 5, 2019_

On March 8, 2019, UMM was given the honor of hosting Isis Magiq’elle, 2011 Santa Barbara Queen of Pride, for the second time at our 2019 Drag Show located in Edson Auditorium. The show lasted from 8:30 P.M. to 10:30 P.M. There were multiple acts with a plethora of different music genres and theatrics used, all of which generated large amounts of applause and countless students rushing to tip performers on-stage and walking in-between the aisles. We asked co-host Mona Libra (who comfortably identified himself as Wyatt Anderson) about his personal story of getting into drag, as well as how he felt the event went overall.

“I first became interested in drag after watching season eight of Rupaul's Drag Race during my senior year of high school. I thought it was amazing how people could transform themselves so drastically and I saw it as another creative outlet. I didn't get into drag for the first time until the summer before my freshman year of college when I was hanging out with friends one night. Let's just say I have come a long way from that night! It can take me anywhere from an hour and a half to two hours to get into full drag, though I like to give myself more time so I get get details right. A lot of effort goes into drag makeup, especially getting the contour and eye makeup done the way that I like it to be. While I may not have the most extravagant costumes or do anything super different than other drag queens, I definitely have fun with what I do. My drag aesthetic is still evolving and I change things up every year. I do also think that by becoming this persona of Mona Libra that I have discovered more about myself and what I'm like as a person. While it's easy to get lost in a character, I would like to think that every time I get into drag that I'm growing more comfortable in my own skin. And honestly when I'm in drag I don't feel like I'm a different person, though I definitely get a lot more attention. I thought that the drag show this year was a tremendous success. Everyone put in so much hard work and I want to congratulate MoQSIE on a fantastic show (especially Ren, Kara, and all of the members of exec). If it wasn't for all the hard work that this group does on campus, we wouldn't have a drag show in the first place! They have given me the awesome opportunity to be a co-host these past two years and I'm so thankful to share something that I love to do with this campus. I also loved getting the chance to work with Isis again. She is such a light in this world and I love being absolutely ridiculous with her onstage. She is so hardworking, humble, and talented. I applaud this woman for all that she does and the way she can command a stage. And I have her to thank for how good I looked on stage, she's the one who gave me the wig that I was wearing! Tipping is always such a fun part about the drag show and usually helps me to buy new outfits/makeup for drag show from year to year. It's so important to tip your performers because they put in hours of work into costumes, makeup, and learning their numbers. The audience usually only sees the three or so minutes of our work when we're performing on stage, so every time someone gives us a tip it shows that they appreciate what we do. I love connecting with audience members, and tipping is the perfect time to do that. Some of my favorite moments in drag happen when people are coming up to the stage and interacting with me rather than just sitting down! I want us all to party and have a great time! This year's show was such an amazing experience and I wouldn't have traded it for anything else. From taking pictures and interacting with people after the show, to acting like a fool while hosting, this has been my favorite drag show by far!”
