---
title: 'Dungeons, Dragons, & Morris: Tabletop RPGs and Campus Culture'
media_order: 'D&D.png'
---

**By Evan Douville, Feature Editor** _Originally published in Issue 3, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, October 11, 2019_

If there’s one thing I find most prevalent on our campus, above all the hardworking, dedicated students, is that we have a very high regard for Dungeons and Dragons here. Not just D&D, but Tabletop Role Playing Games (TTRPGs) in general. Morris is, in my experience, incredibly TTRPG-crazy: with 113 registered members of Morris’ own RPG club, along with many others who aren’t enrolled, that’s almost 8% of our nearly 1500-student body. It’s absolutely amazing how prominent D&D is here compared to where I went to high school. I’ve managed to interview a few students about their love of D&D or new-ness to it, and I got some surprising answers.

“I’ve always had a love for RPGs and the shenanigans you can get into with them,” Nathan Johnson, junior, told me. “RPG club, however, helped me find more people to share these experiences with.”

“I’d definitely say that D&D and the community of people who play it occupy a big space in Morris,” Cal Mergendahl, sophomore, told me, “and RPG club has given me the chance to better connect with that community. That’s something I didn’t realize how much I appreciated until recently.”

Whether people have been playing D&D for quite a while or are just starting out, experiences with RPG club have helped shape students’ love of D&D into something tangible. One thing Nathan appreciates most about RPG club is the social aspect. “A lot of people on campus play D&D, I’ve made tons of friends just talking to other people about what they see in their campaigns and sharing stories of what happens in mine. 

“Last year, I would have random people walk up to me and ask ‘Hey, are you the DM (Dungeon Master, or game-runner) where et cetera happened?' I didn’t know a lot of these people, but they all either played D&D or knew someone who did and we could laugh at some of the stuff that the players did in the past weeks.”

Alternatively, some students feel incredibly pleased that Morris offers such a diverse and welcoming D&D community. Marcus Demers, sophomore, told us, “RPG club has connected me to a large number of people who share a similar love for roleplaying games as me. Compared to back home, coming to Morris and joining the RPG community has given me the ability to play with so many more people, get more inspiration for the games I run, and express myself through more varied characters.

“Though I enjoy the groups I play with back home, my relationship to them leaves me feeling pigeonholed into certain roles or themes due to just how deep their preconceptions of my playstyle are. This process can happen amongst a community as large as Morris, but it would be incredibly fulfilling to be that well known amongst so many.”

“One of the reasons I love Morris is it’s full of people who want to participate,” Josh Johnson, professor of English and Interim Writing Center Director told me. “I’m always amazed and surprised at how active people are on campus. You get to participate in the making of a story, you get to have some influence in that. It’s also just awesomely fun and weird, just like Morris, so it’s not so surprising that students and even faculty play it.”

Outside of just the game, D&D helps provide students with a community of like-minded individuals who are all going to be there for each other: Nathan told me, “I study with these friends, party with them, play more D&D with them, eat lunch with them. This club just helps you make friends by giving you something fun to have in common with them.”

Marcus told us, “Roleplaying club connects a vast array of people who share a love for, in my opinion, what is the best form of escapist media. Role playing games provide safe spaces where people can cease to be themselves, cease to worry about midterms, cease to worry about relationships, etc. for a few hours, and in a stressful environment like college that is all very important for maintaining mental health and friendships.”

Marcus also commented on how welcoming and diverse the RPG community is here in Morris. “My biggest comment about Morris tabletop is that it’s a safe haven for LGBT folk. It is a world where you either get to ignore the oppression of the world at large, or critically strike the oppressors with your enchanted dagger. This reflects in the characters that my players make. Nearly every player character in my campaign, dead or alive, has been queer. Karl the asexual highland warrior, Ataz the gay weretiger sailor man, Patuck the agender duck bard, etc. All these characters are the result of people exploring gender and sexuality in a safe environment where the biggest threats the world faces are invasions of evil monsters and crazed villains set on world destruction, not the plights of the real world like the resurgence of fascism and the climate apocalypse.”

“It’s funny,” Josh told me, “when I was growing up D&D was a pretty stigmatized thing that lots of people didn’t play. It was this sort of ‘far reach’ of being a nerd, especially if you were LARPing. RPG club makes [TTRPGs and D&D] more visible and not something to be ashamed of, it’s something that’s pretty cool! It’s not just the stereotypical ‘nerds,’ lots of different people can play and come together. With lots of different people, with lots of different perspectives who all look and act and talk different, maybe it’s easier to come along and say “wow, I can see myself here,” right? Women can play, queer people can play, people of color can play, old people, young people, it’s everyone.”

There’s a sense of being in it for the long haul with D&D, with some students playing campaigns since arriving at Morris continuing until today! Cal told me, “The only campaign that I’ve really been involved in for more than a month so far has been Terror From Beyond and Below, which has been a campaign I’ve played since coming to Morris. Unfortunately, my character in that campaign was just killed and I’m still a bit sad about it.” There’s a sense of attachment that comes with playing D&D, that the emotions are real. 

While Nathan loves RPG club, he also believes there’s even more the club could be doing to get people interested in D&D and TTRPGs in general. “Personally, we could do more stuff that invites the general student body to do stuff with the RPG club, however we do have a lot of open invitation events planned, so I think things are gonna get a lot better.”

Marcus offered a solution: “ I believe RPG club should host a ‘So you’ve never played D&D?’ night where the club gathers Game Masters to introduce newbie students into role playing. I know back home I introduced all my friends to D&D years ago and today they’re all in their own campaigns at their own schools. It wouldn’t be hard to organize a newbie introduction event considering Wizards of the Coast does similar work with their Adventurer’s League which pays GMs to guide players of all experience levels through modules. Though pay would be nice, I wouldn’t personally expect it should I be invited to write for brand new players. GMs are always thinking of new material that would make for a good story arc, or encounter, or joke, and the best people to use the best ideas on are newbies.”

One of the most challenging aspects of getting into D&D is finding a good DM. Naturally, Nathan suggested, “Also, we should teach a few classes on how to DM so more people wanna try it and so the current DMs can play for once.”

Josh tells me what he thinks the core idea of D&D is to him, that “D&D is about communal storytelling, and much of English studies is about how we tell stories to each other: what sort of stories we do and don’t value, and what they can teach us. That, to me, seems to be what D&D is about. When playing you trick people, in essence, into being themselves. All versions of themselves, good and bad, whether they’re outgoing or shy. There’s something wonderful about that.”

Nathan concluded our interview with an important plea: “Everyone reading this, find a friend that plays D&D and ask them to tell you a story of something fun that happened while playing. There is an excitement that I can’t explain that people tend to get when they share these stories with you. The person telling the story uses words like ‘we’ and ‘I’ when telling the story. Their character didn’t slay the vampire or ride the dragon into a mountain while on fire, the person talks like it was actually them, and in a real way, they really did it.”