---
title: 'Graduation Thoughts: Talk from Graduation Students'
---

**By Evan Douville, Feature Editor** _Originally published in Issue 9, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, February 21, 2020_

This May, May of 2020, I, and several hundred others, will finally be graduating. If I am being honest, it is a little surreal. Like...fifteen to seventeen years of schooling for some of us, and we finally get yet another piece of paper saying that “yes, you did it.” For some, it is the final chapter; this is it, we got our diploma, our bachelors of arts, or our education requirements out of the way. For others, it is just another step as they continue on towards graduate school, internships, and other post-undergraduate opportunities. But, really, we all still feel the anxieties of graduating and moving on.

About a month ago, it finally set in that I am about to graduate. I began taking my senior seminar, and it has been really strange realizing that “oh crap, this is it. This is the last big class I have to take.” Others around me in that class are also graduating, while some still have another year or semester to complete. I just told my bosses at my work-study position that I will be leaving after this year, and they all took it as a bit of a shock. Heck, my parents are still surprised that after all this time I am finally done with school, especially as my sister finally begins her journey into the unknown realms of college (maybe at Morris, maybe not...we shall see).

“It feels good to finally be graduating. While I’ll miss things here, it feels like I’ve completed what I came here to do,” Victoria Asche, English, told the UR. “It’s a mixture of fear and excitement. The only thing I’ve got planned so far is to travel throughout England with my sister. I’m going to show her around where I studied abroad, and then we’re going to do all the stuff I didn’t have time to do while I was in school there.”

“I plan to go work full time as a software engineer after graduation,” Ethan Uphoff, computer science, told us. “There are a lot of unknowns beyond college, though I am sure I will be able to deal with them. ”

“I think I am fairly unique in that I know what I am going to do after I graduate: I will be working,” Ariel Cordes, computer science, told us. “I am going to sit in a cushy office all day.”

It has been a great time for me to reflect on the past three years here. My experience here was like a parabola; it started out really, really bad. Like, miserable. Like “this-school-sucks-I-am-going-to-drop-out-and-I-hate-it-here” kind of miserable. Then, last year happened, and life picked up a little bit. Then, last semester happened, and right as I hit my stride it finally ended. I asked myself, and a few other friends of mine who are graduating, what they would do if they could go back and change something. For me, I would have said “spend more time with people who actually care about you. If you want to find people who want to spend time with you, you will find them.” It took until sophomore year to find a group I could trust, and until this year to find a group of people who genuinely called me friends, including but not limited to: the Gay 2-2 boys, my fellow coworkers here on the UR staff, the wonderful people at our Creative Writing club, and a good number of my fellow English majors. If I was less of a stubborn person, I think I would have found my people much quicker.

“Remember to breathe and do not stress over life too much,” Nathan Johnson, psychology, told me. “Just keep your focus on your classes, and every now and then check with your counselors to make sure you are on track.”

“There were a couple semesters where I was sleeping in four hour shifts twice a day, and others where I would end up going to class with no sleep,” Uphoff told us. “It thankfully had no effect on my academic performance, but it made paying attention in class much harder.”

“Well, see, I would have chosen to not live in the apartments,” Cordes reflected. “I think that a lot of people see the apartments and living off campus as a great way to save money and get life experience and that’s great, but I think I would have gotten a lot more out of my college experience if I had been living in the dorms. For people who didn’t, I’d argue that you miss out on the ‘experience.’ I felt more isolated there.”

It is incredibly important, I also think, to thank people in your life who helped you get this far. Let me be real, whether you are a first year or a graduated townie: college is rough if you don’t have people in your life who support you. If I had not called my parents at every opportunity whenever I was down (which, let me be real, I should have done way more), I think I would have probably dropped out by now. So shout out to my family, both biological and found. Also, big thanks to the wonderful English faculty here. All of them, in some fashion, have acted as mentors and friends throughout my three years here.

“Definitely want to thank my professors in the psych and music departments,” Johnson said, “they helped me get through certain hurdles. I would also like to thank many of my friends and roommates, past and present. They all definitely helped me out with homework and other projects when I needed it.”

“I want to thank Brad Deane for being an insightful and fun professor throughout my college career here and helping me find my particular interests in the field of English through all the classes I took with him, including my senior sem,” Asche told us.

“All of the computer science professors are wonderful people who actively work to do their best for the students,” Uphoff told us. “In my time as a computer science student I never once felt like I couldn’t ask them for help with an assignment. I’d like to thank them.”

“I could not have done this on my own,” Cordes said. “I’d like to thank my parents, cause...well, they’re my parents. We’ve had our differences, but they’ve helped me out a lot. And of course, Renna. Renna and I met freshman year, around the same time, same floor, we basically became friends, and she’s been there for me ever since.”

When I graduate, though, and move back home and get a big boy job and start living “the life” as so many people tell me, there is a lot I am going to miss from here. I will miss that, after 10 p.m., practically everything in town goes to sleep. It is quiet; I can walk around town at night and just be alone with my thoughts. It can be tricky to do that back in the Twin Cities, believe me. I think I am going to miss sitting in the TMC and doing my homework, being surrounded by people my age and professors and everyone in between. I think that is one of the biggest things I will miss; just being around...well, people. I am such a massive introvert, and in such a weird area back home, that I do not think I am ever going to have such an opportunity to be around people my age ever again. I think that is a common issue, right? I will absolutely miss the dining hall, believe it or not. I am a terrible cook. Just...absolutely awful. I will also miss just being in such a place where I can learn and see people I know trying to learn the same things I am. Some people say that never goes away when you get your job; I do not know if I beg to differ yet. 

Uphoff commented, “I quickly realized how valuable the free time I have at college is. Going from around two to three hours of classes a day to working eight hours a day is quite a large change in the amount of free time you have. I’ll also miss being around people, it’s the proximity in which students live in Morris. Spending time with friends is easy here as everyone is a short walk away. It’s far easier to plan events on campus as everyone can make it to campus for the most part.”

And yet, there are also memories to be made and treasured. “I’ll always hold onto the memories of the walks I’d take with friends around or off campus. It was always an event to go to Casey’s or to take a late night walk and tell people things that you normally wouldn’t. Or just to be childish and play in the rain with friends,” Asche reminisces.

“There are plenty of memories which I will hold dear from my time here at Morris,” Uphoff says, “rather than choose one I want to choose a collection. The LAN parties were one of my favorite parts of being at Morris. Once a semester, people piled into Oyate to play a wide variety of games. I remember playing Smash 4 at every one of the events for hours on end having a generally great time.”

Johnson comments, “One time, freshman year, my friend and I were in the Indy kitchen eating pizza that we did not pay for (editor’s note: he promises he did not steal it) late at night working on essays and projects that were due first thing the next day. If that isn’t college, I don’t know what is.”

Cordes in particular shared a vulnerable, yet empowering moment. “For the third laser tag event, I was really stressed out. My co-exec had to be on call and leave early. I felt like I had to be there. My friends brought a Switch and a TV to the Student Center, and we played Mario Kart, and they did that just to calm my nerves. After the event ended, I went inside to clean up all the obstacles and everything. When I went inside, and saw everyone, like ten people, players, the building event manager, everyone was helping with a smile on their face. It was the most meaningful moment for me. I felt like I believed that something I did, that I helped start, brought people together, brought them happiness, and united them. I’ll cherish that forever.”

This May, many of us graduate, but as you can see, Morris will not leave us. Instead, we will take it with us, boldly, into the future.