---
title: 'Indigenous Identity As Conflict'
date: '19-11-2018 23:23'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - feature
---

**By Trey Goodsell, Staff Writer** _Originally published in Issue 6, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, November 16, 2018_

While volunteering for an event last week, I overheard a student apologizing to a student leader running the event. They wished that they had participated in the leader’s organization more last year, but that there was too much drama. The organization in question, the Circle of Nations Indigenous Association, is highly prone to this particular apology. While I served in various positions within CNIA, I heard it quite a lot, despite my best efforts to alleviate the problem. Hearing it is still afflicting the organization now has prompted some introspection and interrogation. Why is this a common feeling? Is it rooted in a real, unaddressed problem, or is it a product of people’s perceptions and past experiences, something out of the realm of campus-based solutions? 

The Morris campus is home to a large population of Indigenous Americans, but that community seems much smaller than it otherwise might due to tensions and fractures that have continued to go unresolved. The American Indian Tuition Waiver, established in honor of the campus’s history as an “Indian boarding school.” The tuition waiver is only afforded to those who are enrolled members of or have certified descendancy from the 564 federally-recognized tribes. Over 20% of the students enrolled this fall are indigenous and receiving the waiver. As with all policy benefiting a specific group, there is considerable derision and misinformation surrounding those who receive the waiver, its history, and the way that the waiver is funded. While not having the space or grace to do the waiver justice, I think it plays a large part in the tension within the indigenous community. The main cleavage within that community is between the reservation-born and white-passing students. 

White-passing members of the community have faced criticism and even derision by brown-skinned indigenous and white students alike. I have always considered the antagonism unwarranted, because I do not believe that there should be any special test to receiving the American Indian Tuition Waiver. I do acknowledge that the white-passing students, as a group, rarely do themselves any favors by remaining distant from student life organized by their brown-skinned peers, who often dominate the groups and programming. In my time serving, we never had an overtly hostile atmosphere toward our white-passing peers, but I do know that the hostility was there in whispers and in intent. Many programs are oriented around accommodating those who were raised on the reservations, and not enough programing goes toward enriching the college experience for all students. Such programming would ease those who do not have a strong cultural identity and those who are white-passing into indigenous life. 

Reservation-born students also bring prejudices toward urban and white-passing indigenous people; they are perceived to be less culturally knowledgeable, less spiritual, more privileged, and absent from the shared struggle that indigenous peoples face. These prejudices combine to create a judgement that they are less deserving of affirmative action policies and various rights that tribes have retained through treaties. That judgement ignores the reason that they exist: that our ancestors wanted to protect these rights and concessions from the U.S. government in perpetuity. They are unlikely to have considered whether any of their descendants would deserve them or not. 

The way that the main organization, CNIA, is run is a product of these tensions. But there has to be more at work than this, because few white-passing students ultimately participate regularly. I think back to my own time on the reservation, and what comes to mind is hierarchies and the fierceness with which they are defended. Life on the reservation is too often treated as a zero-sum game between families and the institutions they control. I wonder if these conditions breed a permanent mindset into the people who live their, and whether students are bringing this to bear on how they lead CNIA. 

Are students only able to understand their place in CNIA through conflict? Is that what is turning away students who are unaccustomed to this mindset? I can only offer that in many ways, my own thoughts and disposition change dramatically when I am around other indigenous students. Indeed, I become much more critical and defensive. I am less trusting, forgiving, and magnanimous. I do not want to overstate this phenomenon, because my own experience will always be painfully limited compared to the sum of all people’s. But if this is the case, at least broadly, then can we address it on campus? 

Regarding the specific cleavage described earlier, is there anything to integrate or otherwise engage the white-passing students with the indigenous community? For a start, I believe we need to have more open dialogues about the values that we cannot agree on, such as appropriation, spirituality and belief, and commercialization. No group is entirely won over by a particular stance in these debates, but they clarify and make approachable what is thought and felt instead of letting it fester until a particular event punctures the community. 

Administrators also need to be much more willing to admit that there are problems instead of leaving it to the students to resolve. Students, in the short time they are here, will not have the tools to adjudicate these issues and having an active referee will ensure that each incoming class is supported when the old conflicts arise. 

And lastly, we need white-passing students to show some spine and put themselves out there. I have known so many people receiving the waiver who fail to participate meaningfully year after year. People like me cannot fight their battles for them; they need to form their own consciousness and earn the space that their ancestors preserved for them. I will be waiting for them.