---
title: 'A Poetry Reading by Danez Smith'
date: 10/12/18
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _originally published in Issue 3, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, October 12, 2018_

“National Poetry Day”, a concept which began in Britain in order to foster learning and promote performance, falls on October 4 every year. This makes October 4 the perfect day for a poetry reading, along with a couple other poetry-related activities. Danez Smith, a black, queer, poz writer, teacher, and performer, visited campus for three activities throughout the day: a discussion with creative writing students, an open meet-and-greet, and a poetry reading in the evening. This day of events was made possible with amazing support from several disciplines and campus groups, with English/Creative Writing professor Angela Hume stepping forward to help host the events and introduce Smith.

Smith, the author of Don’t Call us Dead, [insert] boy, and the chapbook black movie, has been the recipient of many poetry awards, including, but not limited to, the Kate Tufts Discovery Award, the Lambda Literary Award for Gay Poetry, the Button Poetry Prize, and most recently, the Forward Prize for Poetry. Smith’s work has been featured in The New Yorker, The New York Times, Buzzfeed, and PBS, as well as other sources.

The first event of the day, Smith’s discussion with creative writing students from a couple of different classes, was a calm and casual start that allowed students to ask the poet questions about writing and performing poetry. Most of the discussion centered around two categories of questions: questions about writing, the process and publication, and questions about Smith’s background as a writer and a queer person of color. Though this was a relatively laid-back event, the discussion with Danez Smith was helpful to those students who asked questions and especially to students who enjoy poetry or plan to pursue writing in their futures.

It was during this first discussion, though it was brought up again at the evening’s poetry reading, that Danez Smith almost attended Morris for college. Smith did, in fact, receive a track scholarship from the school, resulting in them reflecting and joking that the track team “must have been pretty slow” if they wanted Smith to join. Upon first arriving to our campus, Smith spent their free time before the discussion wandering around campus and imagining what their “Morris life” could have been if they had chosen to come here.

Immediately after the group discussion wrapped up, a small meet-and-greet followed in the same location. This was a wonderful opportunity for follow-up questions or for questions from those who hadn’t gotten a chance to ask their questions during the first discussion. Because this was a smaller group of people, everyone who wanted to learn more about Smith and their poetry was able to meet the writer more personally.

As a powerful conclusion to the day, Danez Smith performed a reading of several of their poems, most of which were from Don’t Call us Dead. As could be expected, Smith’s poems were all provocative calls to action. According to Angela Hume, “One might hear in Danez’s poetry the difficult music of survival and resistance in confrontation with structural and cultural anti-blackness...Smith’s work is also a joyful celebration of black queer life, love, and futurity.” With topics that ranged from HIV/AIDS historiography to sexuality to “dinosaurs in the hood,” Smith’s poems were full of emotion and completely captivated the audience. Upon introducing one of their more enthralling pieces, Smith made a couple sexual jokes, a couple political jokes, and even shouted, “Put me in the school newspaper, I don’t care! I’ll be out of here in 30 minutes anyways!” much to the enjoyment of the audience.

One poetic highlight of the evening was Smith’s poem “summer, somewhere” from the book Don’t Call us Dead. This poem, inspired by a couple music videos that stuck with Smith, describes a sort of heaven on earth for black children who have lost their lives to violence. Though only a portion of this poem was shared, the eloquent writing coupled with the powerful performance of this piece fully demonstrated that, through poetry, Smith is achieving their goal to “create art for necessary reasons.” 

_Photo at top courtesy of Danez Smith_