---
title: 'Richard Spencer is a Piece of Shit'
date: '17-11-2017 00:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Brandon Albrecht, Writer** _originally published in Issue 5, Volume 30 of The University Register on Friday, November 17, 2017_

Last week, an article was published in _The UR_ by anonymous students from Students for a Democratic Society explicitly identifying myself and four other members of the College Republicans for attending a speech at UMN Twin Cities by conservative journalist and YouTuber Lauren Southern. The article claimed Ms. Southern was a de facto white nationalist of the same strain as Richard Spencer mentioning them both in the same breath as if they were peanut butter and jelly. No sources were provided to substantiate this claim, and by association, the College Republicans were also implied to be white nationalists. These are blatant falsehoods and I would like to address them here.

First off, the vast majority of people agree that white nationalists like Richard Spencer are terrible people and have just plain stupid ideas. Richard Spencer does not even come close to representing conservatism or Republicanism, not even counting his support for nationalized healthcare! He fundamentally believes that white people are superior to other races, have a higher IQ, and since white people created America and the greatest culture the world has ever known, America and western civilization should stay white.

The idea that your race represents anything significant is idiotic. We are all people created equally in God’s image. Richard Spencer thinks otherwise. The alt-right ultimately rejects the God and Christianity because of its doctrine of salvation for all people, regardless of race. Spencer himself is an avowed atheist. He also thinks that western civilization is intrinsically tied to whiteness and that people of other races somehow cannot sustain the same system. And he, like the rest of the alt-right as well as the left, views the world with a group identity mindset. He disdains the individual and instead wants special status for white people as a group, just as the left wants special status for minorities. This flies in the face of conservatism, which has always held the individual above the collective.

Lauren Southern, on the other hand, is an actual conservative. She recognizes that to become an American or a westerner is to assimilate to a certain set of values and way of life. She stands against the mass immigration in the refugee crisis in Europe because she knows that most of the refugees are not real migrants, and because she wants to preserve western culture, as a set of ideas and values, not race. Most of the migrants are young men who come not from war-torn Syria but from Gambia, Senegal, Somalia, and other backwards countries. The EU even admitted they were mostly economic migrants. The mass immigration of so many people from these backwards countries changes the culture of the country. Generation Identity is not concerned with race but with preserving culture. Lauren recognizes that all cultures are not equal. If continued at the current rate, many European countries will soon be a majority Islamic. I doubt many people reading this would enjoy living under Sharia Law, but it is a real possibility  for some western countries in the future. Lauren only wants to preserve the western way of life. She has also pointed out that she has great respect for American Indians for preserving their own culture.

The generation identity ship that Lauren recorded from in one of her videos had a policy of rescuing migrants who needed help and dropping them off at the nearest port, whether in Europe or Africa. Their purpose was to stop the mass migration craziness with some people paying thousands of dollars (refugees don’t have that kind of money) to get on a dangerous and illegal boat. It’s quite the racket; people are making money by selling illegal passage into Europe, which only ends with the hollowing out of already poor countries and a massive strain on the welfare states of Europe and eventually the collapse of European culture.

All this is besides the point. The speech we saw by Lauren Southern was about the evils of socialism. Does that make us white supremacists? I don’t think so. No one in College Republicans is a white supremacist; we all think it’s quite stupid. Will the leftists care about my disavowal? No, they’ll continue to call me a racist no matter what, as they’ve always done. But please stop trying to classify these issues as black and white or good vs. evil. As Lauren Southern says, we should talk about these problems honestly and “realize that no one, left wing or right wing, wants people to suffer. We just have different solutions to problems.”