---
title: 'In SCOTUS and Baseball, We''re All Just Hoping Not to Have to Stare Into the Abyss'
date: '25-09-2020 16:08'
---

**By Joey Daniewicz, Staff Writer** _Originally published in Issue 2, Volume 33 of The University Register on September 25, 2020_

On Aug. 17, 2020, the San Diego Padres entered the eight inning with a 10-3 lead against the Texas Rangers. After a single and two walks, pitcher Juan Nicasio immediately threw three balls to Padres batter Fernando Tatís Jr. As the Rangers, this is certainly not a spot you would ever want to be, down seven runs with another just one ball away. Surely they’re to blame for whatever disaster may befall them on the next pitch.

Well, you might think so. But after Tatís Jr. swung at the next pitch and hit a grand slam to send the Padres up 14-3, the baseball world collectively lost their minds. At Tatís Jr! Folks got mad at the man for hitting a home run, which seems especially ridiculous given how incentivized baseball players are to produce great statistics. Lest you think the anger just came from a few harmless cranks, the managers of both teams spoke out against the grand slam, as if it was some evil thing.
Of course, the outside world marveled at this, proclaiming this a microcosm of how detached baseball culture is from the outside world, and how its tunnel-visioned stalwarts are holding it hostage as the sport slowly drifts out of relevance. If you have interacted with this story in any capacity, you have likely heard the phrase “unwritten rules.” And you have likely come to the (correct) conclusion that baseball people are deeply strange and often stupid.

However, there is a little more going on here. The game of baseball is unique among major sports because there is no clock, no fixed end to count on. Yes, a rare baseball game might go into the wee hours of the morning playing extra innings or John Isner and Nicolas Mahut might play tennis for three days straight. But those examples go long because the games are competitive. In fact, in tennis, another prominent sport with no game clock, a one-sided beating will actually make the match end just that much sooner. Not so in baseball. In fact, in children’s leagues, there are mercy rules that automatically end the game so your child does not have to suffer the indignity of losing a baseball game until the end of time. Baseball is the oldest of the sports with the biggest American markets. Its structure shows its age, its nine inning structure too enshrined in Americana to ever change.

So yes, old baseball people are angry that Fernando Tatís Jr. expressed joy in a game they feel should be joyless, but on a deeper level, they are upset because baseballers have made a collective agreement to not expose the deepest fault in the structure of their game, which is that it takes cooperation between a winning and a losing team to bring lopsided games to a merciful end. They are angry because he made them remember.

On Feb. 13, 2016, Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia was discovered dead. Scalia was one of the most conservative members of the court, and given then-President Obama’s nominees Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, the death had large implications for our country. The shifting partisan makeup of the SCOTUS is most simply tracked through its swing vote, which at the time was Anthony Kennedy, frequently cited as one of the most influential and powerful individuals in the entire United States, especially after providing the key vote to make marriage equality the law of the land just the summer before. Many expected that the court’s new swing vote thereafter might be Clinton nominee Stephen Breyer, or at the very least Obama’s eventual nominee, Merrick Garland.

Senate Republicans certainly did not want this to happen, so they did not let it. Many wondered if they had the power to simply not seat any Obama nominees until the next President was inaugurated, but they did, and so they do. The Senate confirmed the Trump nominee Neil Gorsuch, certainly less memorable than Antonic Scalia but around as conservative and far less likely to die anytime soon. Anthony Kennedy remained the swing vote in the SCOTUS.

On July 27, 2018, Anthony Kennedy announced that he would be retiring from the Supreme Court. The fallout of the nomination of his successor, alleged rapist Brett Kavanaugh, exceeds the scope of this article. Brett Kavanaugh was confirmed to the SCOTUS and with the exit of Kennedy, John Roberts became the new swing vote in the SCOTUS. Appointed by George W. Bush, John Roberts is certainly a conservative, but a few factors, most notably his status as Chief Justice, led to him being somewhat more merciful than his peers, including when his vote unexpectedly saved Obamacare in 2012. While Roberts as the swing vote is an unpleasant thought to many on the left, the situation at least felt tenable.

On Sept. 18, 2020, Ruth Bader Ginsburg passed away, the second SCOTUS Justice in around four years to exit under an ideologically opposed President during an election year. However, the Senate has stayed Republican, making it so that Republicans cannot experience retribution for their 2016 stunt. Trump’s nominee will almost certainly make their way onto the SCOTUS, and what could have been a court with a swing vote of Stephen Breyer or Merrick Garland will now be a court with a swing vote of...gosh, who knows...maybe Brett Kavanaugh? All under a President who lost the popular vote and a Senate that represents fewer people than its opposition. The Republicans have won the popular vote in one of the past seven Presidential elections and in that time have appointed five of the nine current SCOTUS Justices.

Trump’s disproportionate impact on the judiciary extends well beyond the SCOTUS. As of July, he had appointed 53 federal appeals court judges in three and a half years of presidency. Across his eight years, Barack Obama appointed 55. Though there’s some question about whether this just means one team is more willing to run up the score than the other—Obama’s then-Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel was reported to have said, “I don’t give a fuck about judicial appointments”—the score is currently being run up.

Personally, I find it hard to become angry with the other team for hitting grand slams. Heck, I would love for us to hit some of our own. But one of the reasons it makes us so upset is that it makes us revisit the entire enterprise. We are not so unlike the baseball fans who loathe being reminded that the only thing standing between us and chaos is a fragile web of norms and prayer. Just as in baseball, we think deep down this surely cannot last forever.

Not that it should! In both cases, we have in large part abdicated a duty to change alongside our conditions, instead electing to romanticize the past. A President Biden will not change that the gulf between then and now is getting ever wider between the realities of today and the realities under which the world’s oldest active 
national constitution was codified.

We cannot return to a complacent refusal to stare into this abyss.
