---
title: 'Prairie Gate Literary Festival Review'
---

_Originally published in Issue 4, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, October 25, 2019_

**Alan Shapiro & Bill Willingham**

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor**

The Prairie Gate Literary Festival featured three days of readings and workshops. This fantastic event provided students, community members, and aspiring creative writers the opportunity to meet four writers. On Friday, October 11, the second evening of the festival, Briggs Library hosted readings by poet Alan Shapiro and graphic novelist Bill Willingham. 

Bill Willingham is best known for his “Fables” series through DC’s Vertigo Comics. Unfortunately, doing a live reading of a graphic novel or a comic book can be a bit difficult when it comes down to all the “pow”-ing and the “whoosh”-ing and whatnot. Instead, Willingham chose to read some passages from his children’s book, “Down the Mysterly River.” This comical story full of child-like wonder follows the odd adventure of a boy who gets lost in the woods, comes across talking animals, and questions his own existence. Getting to hear this story aloud brought out the inner adventurer in every audience member thanks to Willingham’s lovely imagery and unforgettable characters. The following day Bill Willingham led a craft talk discussion on the role of comic books in history and civilization.

Alan Shapiro also read some of his work on Friday. Perhaps one of the more interesting things about Alan Shapiro is that he prefers to only read new works or works that are in progress. Shapiro chooses to not revisit older works, and thinks that the ideal reading would be made up entirely of poems he has not written yet. Because of this, Shapiro mostly read poems from “Against Translation,” which was published in March of this year. Shapiro did also read one of his works-in-progress, which will hopefully be published for the general public to read soon. The majority of Shapiro’s poetry focuses on the private moments in life, whether a quiet conversation, a reflection on a relationship, or a funny sign outside of a cemetary. Through such poems, Shapiro can create magical moments and sacred spaces out of daily life. 

Perhaps I am a tiny bit biased towards this content as I am much more closely connected to poetry than I am to fiction, graphic novels, or essays, but I believe that everyone should be able to experience the wonders of daily life in a similar way to how Shapiro writes these moments. Shapiro also ran a craft talk workshop the next morning that encouraged students and community members to work through their own poetry. 

**Sarah Stonich & Ariel Gordon**

**By Melissa Voss, News Editor and Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief**

On Thursday, October 10, creative writers Sarah Stonich and Ariel Gordon read excerpts of their works as part of the Prairie Gate Literary Festival. They shared their backgrounds in creative writing, answered questions, and gave insight to their lives as writers. Before reading an excerpt from her recent novel, Sarah Stonich shared her journey of how she became a writer. She stated that she has always loved to work with her hands, whether that be through painting or writing. With her love of Greater Minnesota, she has traveled to several small Minnesota towns in order to capture genuine small-town life. She told the audience that she loves writing about small towns because she is able to capture the unique conflicts small towns endure, as well as develop realistic, down-to-earth characters who are shaped by these conflicts. From her reading describing the family history of one of her characters, it was clear that Stonich deeply considered the psychological impacts of living in a small town, watching those we love endure hardships, and the unique struggles which life brings to a variety of people. Stonich’s book “Laurentian Divide: A Novel” is the second in a trilogy focusing on northern Minnesota. It is written from three different perspectives, and deals intimately with three characters over a span of a few days. Stonich herself was just as kind, personable, and down-to-earth as her characters, speaking softly at the podium and lighting up at the facts she learned about Morris during her stay. Her writing felt like an open-hearted conversation with a good friend, and with her gentle tone and genuine ardor of real people, Stonich was the perfect voice to bring that conversation to life.

Canadian poet Ariel Gordon was just as warm-hearted and enthusiastic as Stonich, but about a slightly different topic: trees. She shared her love of tree biology with the audience, describing them as lovers who are forever rooted in one place. Her passion for nature came through in much of her writing. Within her poetry collection “Hump,” she combined her personal experiences of pregnancy and childbirth with imagery of nature’s flora and fauna. In her recent novel, “Treed: Walking in Canada’s Urban Forests,” she described the trees of Canada as well as their impact on the people who live with them. During the reading, she read the first essay of the novel, which described Winnipeg’s annual cankerworm infestation, an evening spent with a stranger’s chokecherry tree, and the types of trees she would prefer to plant in her yard if she was allotted the eleven trees Winnipeg’s tree-to-person ratio entitles her to. Her passion for nature enabled her to create a novel that was highly informational yet easily approachable, and incredibly satisfying to any reader who appreciates a good tree. Gordon also led a poetry workshop called Tree Talk on Saturday, October 12, in which participants wrote to and about a linden tree on campus. This workshop was the third Tree Talk poem she had created, and it enabled members of the campus and surrounding community to get up close and personal with trees. Though this was not the first time she had run the workshop, it was the first time that participants were writing poetry to the tree rather than messages. Gordon is planning to publish the poem as a chapbook. 