---
title: 'Bisexual Visibility and Erasure in American Culture and Media'
date: '06-03-2020 23:34'
---

**By Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief** _Originally published in Issue 10, Volume 32 of The University Register on March 6, 2020_

As human beings, we pride ourselves on being progressive. We happily discuss all the steps we have taken to make the world a better place for ourselves, and comfort ourselves in knowing that we have come further than the generations before us. Some of the more recent measures Americans have made in developing a more accepting, open society have been involving the LGBTQ+ community. In the last few years, gay marriage has been legalized, a Small Business of the Year award went to an LGBTQ+ owned business for the first time ever, and some states began offering a gender neutral option for driver’s licences. However, nothing is ever perfectly improved. Even with these developments, there are still plenty of instances of discrimination toward bisexuals in American culture which seem to go unnoticed.

One of the most pressing issues which affects the American bisexual population is simply visibility. In American culture, bisexuality is subject to erasure in a myriad of ways. From misrepresentation in the media to the use of a bisexual label as a publicity tactic, the bisexual identity is often repressed in our culture. 

Even though one may not intend to discriminate against the bisexual community, they may still do so without realizing it in the form of unawareness. American media normalizes bisexual erasure, which can make it difficult for some people to understand what bisexuality is or that it even exists, enabling them to adapt a mindset which normalizes erasure as well. One of the most prominent areas of media responsible for this is television. The Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) run an annual study tracking the number of LGBTQ+ characters in television since 2005. In 2017, 58 out of 901 characters on broadcast television identified as LGBTQ+ . That’s the highest percentage of LGBTQ+ characters shown on broadcast television in the history of the study, but it’s only 6.4 percent. When the broadcast television statistics were taken into account with cable and streaming originals, 28 percent of characters on all television platforms were bisexual+ (a broader label which includes anyone attracted to multiple genders, e.g. bisexual, pansexual, etc). While this may seem like a substantial percentage, it translates to just 93 bisexual characters, 75 of whom were women. This is actually a lower percentage than the previous year, despite it being the highest record of LGBTQ+ characters shown overall.

The epistemic rejection of bisexuality as a valid sexuality is perhaps common in American media because it has been a common and accepted mindset for ages. Often, bisexuality is used as a transition period for characters — a brief period of time where a character previously thought to be straight discovers that they’re actually gay or vice versa. Although this happens in real life, it is also important for the media to acknowledge that sometimes, people are simply bisexual. 

In order to change the toxic mindsets held toward bisexuals in American culture, the culture itself will need to change. One of the largest problems is simply the hypocrisy of America’s relationship with sexuality. America is widely considered a sexual culture, but Americans are stereotypically uncomfortable discussing sex and sexuality. We play with sex in the media, using it as a tool to attract more viewers to a movie or listeners to a song, but when it comes time to consider sexuality as a serious part of a person, we become embarrassed. Perhaps we are too concerned with privacy, thinking that sex is something to be vaguely idealized, but never personally discussed. And while the wish to preserve the privacy of one’s intimacy is arguably well-meaning, it is destroying our ability to discuss and consider sexuality as a real part of us as individuals. It is feeding the erasure which consumes the visibility of many bisexual Americans, and it only contributes to the struggle many have discovering their own sexualities. If Americans were to be more comfortable and open with their sexualities, perhaps so many young people wouldn’t have to struggle to discover a basic part of themselves, being instead free to grow comfortable with themselves and further develop as a person.

Changing the way that our culture views bisexuality will also change the way we view it as individuals, which may be even more important. Right now, our culture  promotes bisexual discrimination to such an intense degree that it has become embedded in the mindsets of many Americans, perhaps even without their realizing. Even as a bisexual woman myself, I have harbored any negative emotions toward bisexuality, albeit subconciously.

When I attended a literary conference in high school, our keynote speaker gave us a piece of advice which stuck with me: If you feel like you shouldn’t be writing about something, that’s exactly what you need to be writing about. At the time, he was speaking in the field of creative writing, but I feel that the advice can be carried across multiple fields of writing. When I began to write this editorial, I felt as though I should not be writing it, but remembering his advice encouraged me to continue writing. I felt as though I should simply accept that America is more accepting toward the LGBTQ+ community than it used to be and keep my bisexuality as small of a part of my identity as possible, choosing instead to see a different part of myself in the media to identify with and be proud of. But the fact is that I do feel something when I see another bisexual person rightfully represented in the media, or carrying the bisexual flag in a pride parade. I don’t know if it’s pride that I’m feeling exactly, but I feel interconnected, part of a community. And even though that feeling is important to me, I almost felt as though it shouldn’t be.

This could be a consequence of my conditioning as a young woman in America socialized to consider her sexuality a hidden part of her persona, and as a daily witness to the myriad of false perceptions of bisexuality which flurry unquestioned through the country. More disturbing than the bisexual discrimination and erasure I have witnessed was the realization that because of the way my own identity was portrayed to me in my own culture, I had to overcome my own mindset of erasure — toward myself. I felt as though an integral part of my own identity was not important enough to write about, as though respect and nondiscriminatory representation were ludicrous things to ask for — because my culture has told me in a plethora of ways that these things are not important, and that it would be futile for me to want anyone else to consider them important. The fact that this needs to change should not be a question. The only question should be how we are going to change our culture’s perception of bisexuality, and when.

_Image on top courtesy of 123rf.com_