---
title: 'Just Let People Have Names, Please'
media_order: name.jpg
date: '06-03-2020 23:14'
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _Originally published in Issue 10, Volume 32 of The University Register on March 6, 2020_

Earlier this week I achieved one of the great milestones of my life as a queer person: I legally changed my name and gender marker. This is something that I have wanted to do for the past six years, and is something that many other transgender people do at some point in their lives. Luckily, Minnesota is a pretty good state to live in as a queer person. The process of going about the name and gender change wasn’t as complicated as I expected, but I also recognize that there are others who have to jump through a ton of extra legal hoops just to be recognized as the person they are. Often, this process requires a note from a doctor or even proof of one’s medical transition. Luckily for me, I didn’t need to bring any extra information and the whole process went smoothly. This was a reason to celebrate, of course! I had been waiting for this moment for a long time and can finally say that I am legally recognized as myself! 

Maybe this is strange or maybe it’s perfectly normal, but I don’t feel any different. I take this as a good sign that I have always been consistent in who I am and how I present myself. The pre-name change Desmond is the same person as the post-name change Desmond, except in the eyes of the law. This being said, there is clearly great power in a name. Names are so closely tied to our identities, especially at times when someone may choose a name different from the one given to them at birth. It should be noted that this is not an experience exclusive to transgender people, as there are many reasons someone may choose to change their name.

I chose my name shortly after coming out, which was six years ago now. Around that same time, I had several reasons that I did not feel I was able to use my chosen name all the time, whether it be a specific context, person, or concern standing in the way of my name. Because of these anxieties and obstacles, both internal and external, I kept quiet and let people call me pretty much whatever they wanted. Part of me feared that correcting others about my name would draw attention to my deviance from gender norms, putting me through even more anxiety and stress. Though I now wish I hadn’t kept so quiet, I am not upset with myself for doing so and I understand why I let so many nicknames slip through the cracks. 

I have actually never been the kind of person to have a real nickname, but I’m not upset about my lack of nicknames. In fact, I prefer it that way. For some people, this might seem like an odd thing to have opinions about, and that’s fine! I’m not here to change anyone’s mind about nicknames, I simply wanted to offer my own reasons for being frustrated when I get called by a name other than the one I worked so hard to get. I went for more than half of my life by a name that I don’t consider my own, so now that people know my name is Desmond, I would hope they wouldn’t have reasons to call me anything else. After all, if I wanted people to call me something other than my name, I would have picked something different, right? 

_Image on top courtesy of Zazzle_