---
title: 'BSU Hosts Annual Soul Food Dinner'
media_order: 49609379421_665e476813_c.jpg
date: '06-03-2020 01:13'
---

**By Alisa Samadani, A&E Editor** _Originally published in Issue 10, Volume 32 of The University Register on March 6, 2020_

On Friday, February 28, BSU hosted the annual Black History Month Soul Food Dinner. The event was held in Oyate, from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. The event was free but RSVP was encouraged.

After a warm welcome from the President of BSU, there was a dismissal of tables for the dinner. The dinner featured fried chicken, collard greens, mashed potatoes, cornbread with honey butter, and peach cobbler. After guests were reseated, the event’s keynote speaker, Dr. Enid Logan, started her piece on how to curate black narratives in 2020.

Dr. Logan began by talking about her upbringing, her journey to becoming a professor at the University of Minnesota – Twin Cities, and her beautiful family. She then spoke about the struggles that people of color have to face, whether it is fitting into a social setting, being an accurate representation of your race according to society’s layers of prejudice. Red, brown, yellow, or black, Dr. Logan went on to say that people of color would always have obstacles from the outside world, and even in our own social circles. Only through a sense of togetherness, through deciding to work with each other, to embrace each other’s history and recognize each other’s trauma, that the world would start to become more beautiful – more welcoming.

“It will always be hard to curate a person of color’s meaningful narrative, because there will always be people and institutions, as wel as really loud, hegemonic cultural constructs telling you that you are not doing x,y, or z right: that you should stop trying to be so alternative, or different, or legible, and just fit into the world we see because that is what’s best – best for you, best for our families, best for America, best for us. At a number of points in my life, I have had people try really hard to push me into their boxes, As a teen and adolescent, I was often told I was not doing ‘black’ right: I was ‘too concerned with my grades’, I was ‘too much like a white girl’, ‘black people don’t play the violin’. I was also told that I was not doing ‘female’ right: I was dressed inappropriately, I was too loud, or I was too sane. There was a time when I was too thin, or too fat, or too light skinned, or too smart, or actually not smart enough and thus, an imposter. I was too insecure, and really a drag to be around, or alternatively, I was too full of myself and I really needed to learn some humility. As I got older, I learned to give many fewer fucks about what other people said. I increasingly insisted on defining myself for myself and telling my own story.”

Dr. Logan mentions a number of films and authors who talk about serving to love others, instead of simply for personal gain. Mentioned are Fred Rogers, Elton John, and Susan King. She then went on to talk about people of color and the responsibility to reclaim our history, reclaiming our truth about who we are. 

“You should extend a passion to all of the sections of your history that have brought us here today and made us who we are.” “White supremacy has evolved into attempted evacuation of brown and black and indigenous  communities. To curate our own narratives is to radically reclaim our humanity and repossess ourselves. African Americans are stolen people, and to curate our own narratives is to steal ourselves back from history. Now, a lot of this is going to involve a kind of racialized self-love. As a black woman, this means to love our curves, to love our brown and black and tan skin. For me, it has been coming to love and accept our coily, curly hair that we were taught for so long to be ashamed of. This seems to be changing now, but my generation and the generation before me were taught to despise our hair. I just started wearing my hair naturally, and I am still undergoing a radical process of racial reprogramming, that is several centuries in the making. Curating an empowered black narrative also means continuing to rage, at all times, at the obscenity of racial injustice, as well as the other types of racial injustices that have collectively oppressed us as humans.”

After Dr. Logan’s speech, Brad Miller led the Morris Community Choir into a small selection of pieces fit for the event. Lastly, the choir invited the audience to sing along to the ‘black national anthem’, “Lift Every Voice and Sing”, by J. Rosamond Johnson and James Weldon Johnson.