---
title: 'Esports: the Responsible NFL That Doesn''t Take Your Tax Dollars'
media_order: Esports_new.jpg
date: '08-02-2018 18:56'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Ben Mladenich, Staff Writer** _uploaded at 6:56 p.m. on Thursday, February 8, 2018_

In December of 2016, I went to go see _Passengers_ with several of my friends. I read the other showings as we waited in line for tickets and found something very unusual among the listed movies. _Dota 2_ was listed for several tournament streams. This confused me as _Dota 2_ is a video game, something I would never have guessed would be streamed at regular, Friday night showings. But Esports have taken off in ways that only people well versed in the language of online gaming would understand. Though they fill movie theaters rather than stadiums, Esports are a growing contender in the world of sports programming demanding the attention of viewers worldwide, and they are eager to not make the same mistakes that other professional sports organizations have.

In terms of numbers, Esports are certainly climbing. Tournaments, though much smaller in physical attendance than other sports, garner a massive online spectatorship through streaming providers like Twitch. These numbers continue to rise, baffling those networks that simply do not understand the Esports industry. The advertising prospects for these events are massive, especially for the larger, more unified tournaments.

Streaming has risen in popularity in recent years both as a venue for Esports as well as for personal streaming. According to Julia Alexander, writer for _Polygon_, DrDisRespect’s recent stream reached a high of 388,000 viewers, a record for the platform (though aspects of DrDisRespect’s behavior also make it difficult for any league to associate with him). Conversely, this year’s Super Bowl reached a much greater high at an average of 103.4 million viewers according to _Reuters_, though that number has been slipping in the last few years.

Monetary gain for players is also something to be considered in tournament play. For example, the prize pool of International 2017, a _Dota 2_ tournament, was a total of $10,862,683 for the first place winners and $61,720 for 18th place. Accounting for all places, the pool was nearly $25,000,000 (_Dota 2_ Prize Pool Tracker). NFL players earn anywhere between $56,000 to $112,000 per game depending on whether or not they lose according to journalist Scooby Axson in his recent _Sports Illustrated_ article, “Do Players Get Paid Bonuses for Winning the Super Bowl?” though that figure does not take into account the advertising opportunities or total profit an organization might make from putting on a tournament.
Blizzard’s _Overwatch_, under the direction of Jeff Kaplan, recently launched Overwatch League, or OWL for short, which is a first-party professional scene. Players are assigned a team and set up to play against others within the league on a regular basis, more closely resembling conventional sports leagues than other games, which opt for something similar to a more isolated tournament structure.
Overwatch League also recently welcomed its first female professional, Geguri, who received a lot of attention during the first competitive seasons as she was so good at the hero Zarya that she was accused of cheating, though she happily disproved the accusations. According to _Your Overwatch_, a popular Youtube channel, Geguri is also trying to differentiate herself from being known as ‘the female Overwatch professional,’ and would rather be considered just another competent and skillful league professional, which she has already proven herself to be. Greg Easterbrook points out that the NFL also technically allows women; it has just never had one play. Though Geguri was not a first round draft pick in Overwatch league, it seems that this Esport (one with an incredibly diverse character pool) is becoming increasingly accepting of female players.

Conditions for Esports players have improved substantially over what they once used to be, though there is still a long way to go to reach an optimal balance between long hours of practice and health. Where professional athletes are required to rest in order to improve, it seems that Esports organizations are not of the same mind. Many professionals are required to practice with their team for many hours a day, and then go on to stream for an audience in addition to that. A typical player might put in as many as sixteen hours of total game-time each day. Such repetitive actions for many hours on end, day after day puts a massive amount of strain on the fingers and wrists, not to mention the psyche of the individual in question. As such, many teams opt to hire both doctors and nutritionists to help offset the possibility of chronic injury, as the staff of Kotaku’s _COMPETE_ points out. Less addressed are controversies and breakdowns started by players under this intense regimen. Recently, XQC, a popular streamer and OWL league player, made a homophobic slur in the middle of his stream about another OWL professional. He apologized immediately, was fined $1,000, and was not allowed to play for his team in the next several matches. The targeted player made a Twitter post later saying that there were no hard feelings, and the whole event passed through with little fanfare. OWL reacted swiftly, showing that they would not tolerate such behavior. This method of actively trying to enforce better behavior is a breath of fresh air, especially with the NFL’s reputation for having inadequate bans and punishments for offending players such as Ray Rice, whose actions seem to have been largely ignored by the administration of the NFL. After being convicted of domestic assault, Rice was only banned for two games initially. Policies were later revamped to force him out of the league after a video of him dragging his unconscious wife out of an elevator was released (Louis Bien).

Cheating, something more easily handled by athletic sports organizations, has always been an issue as long as competition has been around. Tour de France athletes have cheated by using steroids, blood doping, and tiny electric motors hidden within bike frames and wheels. Esports are no exception. Perhaps it is even easier to cheat in most Esports, though it is certainly not without evidence. Many tournaments record the view of players in each game, and can review the footage later if there is any dispute. In some cases, it is even possible that a player might be found guilty of cheating within a match, such as the case of a professional CS:GO player representing Winterfox. During a match against Renegades, WFX*XP3’s crosshair snapped directly onto the head of an enemy player, though the player was hidden by a wall. The most likely hack WFX*XP3 used in this scenario was a wall-hack, which allows players to see through walls to gain an advantage. Among other popular hacks are aimbots and spinbots, as well as programs that compensate for recoil and bullet spread. Other, more malicious hacks might even target an opponent’s computer, forcing them offline long enough for the cheater to win the game. While cheating bans might be avoidable by either buying a new account or waiting for a ban to expire, even a ban of just two years might be too much for a player to recover from. While conventional sports might change over time with the slight additions of new rules, Esports have an environment of rapid change that is introduced in the form of frequent balance patches for games who still have active developers. Characters might change in play style completely, and mechanics might change so radically that the game is almost completely different on a competitive level when the player returns.

Balance patches and the introduction of new weapons and abilities might bring new aspects to the game in a way that conventional sports will never be able to, but these updates are also a double edged sword. As covered by Jamie Villanueva, in 2015, CS:GO introduced the R8 revolver, a weapon that was so overpowered in its launch state that it began to replace all other weapons in the game as it was effective at any range, and simply outclassed most of its competition. Tournaments in the next months had to actually revert the official version of the game back to one in which the revolver had not been implemented. Eventually, Valve released a balance patch that put the revolver further down on the hierarchy of weapons, and today it sits as a weapon that is now rarely seen in competitive play.

Esports leagues are up and coming, and are eager to prove themselves by not making the same mistakes that the NFL and other professional sports organizations have. Punishments come swiftly, with consequence, and emerging leagues seem to be making conscious efforts to improve themselves. If these trends continue, someday in the not-too-distant future, the NFL might have something to truly contend with.