---
title: 'Effects of COVID-19 Pandemic on Mental Health'
date: '10-04-2020 12:30'
---

**By Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief**

When the COVID-19 pandemic started, I did not imagine that it would become this dire. When in-person classes were cancelled, states began mandating social distancing, and the streets grew more and more empty, it felt a bit like being in a disaster movie. This has been an adjustment for everyone, and, as I do with most things, I’ve been thinking about how it affects the mental health of those involved.

An obvious object of concern is the effects of isolation during quarantine or social distancing. In this time, most people are discouraged from leaving their homes unless they have an essential job, are out on a necessary errand (e.g. grocery shopping), or are going to provide care for someone else. This means that many people are stuck in their homes with limited opportunities to go outside and interact with others. While some people are visiting each other from six feet apart or over video chat, not everyone has the opportunity to do so, whether that’s because they don’t have access to the internet or because they have a preexisting condition that makes it more dangerous for them to go outside and risk exposure. These people are especially susceptible to the detrimental effects of social isolation that threaten the majority of the population right now. 

Social isolation can cause a myriad of both physical and mental health issues, such as higher stress levels, an increased risk of depression, and heightened blood pressure. In a situation such as this, when everything is uncertain and social interaction is limited, entire countries are at risk for these negative effects. To combat them, I suggest finding ways to connect with others from home: video chat with friends, write letters to those in nursing homes or group homes, play multi-player video games, or call your friends and extended families. Reach out to friends who may have trouble initiating conversations.

Another aspect of quarantine I was concerned about was the role it would play in abusive relationships. With in-person classes cancelled for both college-aged and younger students and most employees either working from home or not working, kids with abusive parents and people with abusive partners are stuck in their homes with their abusers. Some colleges are offering consolidated housing for students who don’t feel safe returning home, but not every student has this opportunity, and not all those being abused are students. Domestic abuse hotlines are still open, but the fact that most people have limited opportunities to leave the house gives abusers a better ability to control their victims and monitor their contact with others. If you know someone who is in danger of being trapped in an abusive situation, consider reaching out to them and make sure they’re alright. If you are in an abusive situation or think you’re in danger of being in one, remember that there are still resources available to help you. The National Domestic Abuse Hotline is available at 1-800-799-7233 and offers a live chat service for those who don’t feel safe making a phone call. They also offer resources on their website for friends and family of abuse victims looking to offer support.
However this pandemic is affecting you, I encourage you to take stock of your personal mental health. Evaluate how you are feeling and consider what you can do to minimize your anxiety during these times. Seek social support when you need it. Everyone is facing similar problems as a result of COVID-19, so whatever your personal struggles are during these times, you can likely find someone who can relate and help you cope with them. For now, stay safe, stay clean, and stay connected!

_Image on top courtesy of KFOR_