---
title: 'Don''t Wait Until it''s too Late, Self-Advocate'
date: '17-09-2018 00:00'
---

**By Trey Goodsell, Staff Writer** _originally published in Issue 11, Volume 30 of The Univeristy Register on Friday, September 1,4 2018_

The stereotype of college kids assumes many are activists bringing provocateurs to campus to challenge our safe spaces. (I don’t know what stereotypes are in with the public, if you couldn’t tell.) What’s startling about reality is that many of us are inarticulate up until we are out of college.

Being a good advocate for any cause or group is going to be hugely important in the average person’s life. The skills involved will lead to personal growth, advancement, and change. But not many people see themselves in need of advocacy. They may see a need in the institutions they support or are supported by, such as a University. And I am not hoping that anyone reading this will need advocacy, but exploitation constantly lurks beneath the surface of our society. As a friend once jokingly responded to my question of concern, “Five rapes happen in Morris every year!” Knowing those were the statistics used by campus police, the actual rate is likely far higher. That story should also serve to remind all of you that some members are more vulnerable than others, and that advocacy is going to be disproportionately important to them. 

Identifying your needs should be easy, right? Not quite. Identification can unravel a whole chain of cause and effect, a chain that implicates our whole culture in more extreme cases. Knowing where to start can be equally dispiriting, either faced with the person or thing directly causing your problems or having to figure out where down the chain you can start. Sometimes, you want to advocate before a problem ever occurs (as in the case of relationship violence), but you face the issue of legitimacy that often plagues efforts to reform society, individuals, and institutions alike. 

The most important skill is letting go of fear, in this case, fear of vulnerability. Placing yourself at the opinions of others to win support is incredibly difficult. Even more so in situations where you must defend yourself or your story in front of deliberative bodies seeking truth.  Sometimes, what you need is going to be as simple as planning your schedule for the coming year; at others, you have to admit that you were violated and be open about your emotions. The latter, in particular, can be extraordinarily difficult with the burden of stigma that face victims, survivors, and agitators in general. No matter how heinous the status quo, people can be vicious in their defense of it or their apathy toward your plight. Being able to defend yourself and your needs is the first step to being able to find some measure of justice, recompense, or change to ensure the circumstances never afflict someone else. 

The next step is knowing your resources. Especially as a student, you have access to such a diversity that can surprise you. The most obvious is the University’s own institutions, such as the campus police, the Office of Residential Life, the Office of Academic Success, all the way up to the Chancellor’s Office. Some outside organizations are also obvious sources of help, such as Unspoken Voices, the Morris Rental Housing Commission, and various state or city offices. But an underappreciated source of help is the student body, particularly student organizations. They are organized around different missions, identities, and interests, but they are a key part of any student’s experience in college, and the field of advocacy is no exception. The first thing that may come to mind when you see “student organization” and “advocacy” in the same sentence is likely to be explicitly political groups. But some of the most effective organizing around student issues occurs outside of such explicitly issue-oriented groups. The Indigenous student groups have strong influence with the programming directed toward their community on campus, and can change the direction of the offices serving that community and the people who staff it. 

The ability to weave a powerful narrative out of the disparate parts uncovered when you research your issue can be the deciding factor in winning support and progress. The research that comes before that is going to be hard, and that is where your education can make the most difference. Higher education is great for teaching the formal process for building solid intellectual foundations. Standing up to scrutiny is important for any movement. However, a major impetus for the creation of this op-ed is the neglect that the institution puts in teaching you about yourself, specifically an absence of skills to learn about and communicate specifically for yourself. 

This may seem like it is another instance of “For Your Consideration, This is Capital ‘I’ Important”™, but being able to push your own interests in civic and private life is important. No fight that secured your rights was ever definitively won, and many in the world, even those who call themselves your friend, will undermine or corrupt those rights to mitigate your power. You cannot let them. When faced with exploitation, many submit or give up, their energy all used up. People find refuge in cynicism or apathy. What must be taught and shared, is that ways exist to counter exploitation, that being prepared can make all the difference in whether a fight is won or lost. No fight is insurmountable; never feel that one is. 