---
title: 'Theatre Discipline Presents: Dead Man''s Cell Phone'
media_order: '31794836528_950ec77dc4_o-min (1).jpg'
date: '09-11-2018 00:00'
---

**By Janie Dam, Arts & Entertainment Editor** _originally published in Issue 5, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, November 9, 2018_

The University of Minnesota Morris’ Theatre Discipline opens its 2018-2019 season with _Dead Man’s Cell Phone_ on Thursday, November 1 running through November 3 in the Humanities Fine Arts’ Black Box Theatre. Written by award-winning playwright, Sarah Ruhl, this production explores the ways in which technology changes people. More specifically how disconnected we are with being present.

The play follows Jean (Katie Booth, ‘20), who is seen sitting in a cafe frustrated by the incessant ringing cell phone from the table nearby. She eventually realizes that the owner--sitting ever so upright and still, is dead. Jean soon learns that the person’s name is Gordon (Braeden McDougall, ‘19) after answering a call from his mother, Mrs. Gottlieb (Paige Quinlivan, ‘19). During the funeral, we see that Jean has taken it upon herself to hold onto Gordon’s phone and continues answering every incoming call. A mysterious woman then rings and Jean agrees to meet her shortly after, where it is revealed that the woman was Gordon’s mistress (Natalie Wallraff, ‘20).

Mrs. Gottlieb asks Jean to meet in person so that they can talk about Gordon. She soon begins to ask intrusive questions and Jean impulsively tells her that she had known Gordon through working with him. Because of the little lies told in order to comfort the people around her, Jean gets herself into a messy string of events. Mrs. Gottlieb invites Jean over for dinner along with her son, Dwight (Ryan Stout, ‘19) and Gordon’s widow, Hermia (Caroline Vodacek, ‘19) where Jean gifts them with items from the cafe she had revisited, claiming that they were from Gordon. Mrs. Gottlieb frantically leaves the table in reaction to a spoon that Jean presented and Hermia goes to comfort her. Jean and Dwight are alone and begin to bond over stationery.

In the stationery store where Dwight works, he opens up to Jean about his late brother and implies that they never had the best family relationship. When the two begin to kiss, Gordon enters the stage and opens his mouth to speak but instead, the lights go out. In his monologue, Gordon speaks directly to the audience and reveals that he had been running a business selling organs on the black market. On the day he died, Gordon only wanted to go to the cafe so that he can have a bowl of lobster bisque but figured that Jean had ordered the last one. Holding a sense of aversion towards her, Gordon quietly sits and watch Jean eat what was suppose to be his soup. However, he then says Jean looked like an angel and that he was happy she had gotten the last bite. That is when he suffered from a heart attack and died. Returning to Jean and Dwight in the stationery closet, Dwight tells Jean that he loves her but she gets a call on Gordon’s phone. In annoyance, Dwight forbids her from answering anymore calls. Jean angrily refuses and then receives another call that turns out to be Hermia who needs a ride home from the bar. 

Hermia drunkenly spills intimate details about her and Gordon’s sex life and eventually reaches the assumption that Jean and Gordon were having an affair to which Jean denies. She then begins to breakdown and Jean recites a made up letter from Gordon in order to make Hermia feel better. Hermia then continues with her word vomit and mentioned Gordon selling people’s organs for a living. Jean is floored by this information and the phone rings in that moment with a woman saying that there is a kidney for sale in South Africa and the two shall meet at the Johannesburg airport.

Jean follows through and arrives at the airport to meet the woman who turns out to be Gordon’s mistress once again. She forces Jean to hand over Gordon’s phone so that she could access his business contacts but Jean refuses and the two struggle against one another. The woman knocks Jean unconscious and when she later awakes, Jean finds herself back in the cafe with Gordon. Now being able to speak to her, Gordon explains that she ended up in his pipeline because people go to the person they loved most after death. As she’s able to listen to phone conversations from this heaven-like dimension, Jean hears herself talking with Mrs. Gottlieb for the first time and then tells Gordon that his mother loved him the most. Gordon suddenly shifts into a happier character upon hearing this and disappears into his mother’s pipeline where he would be waiting for her. Jean is then left alone and anxiously tries to call Dwight but fails to reach him. She decides to yell "Z," a code word the two created, and wakes in the airport with Dwight next to her.
At Mrs. Gottlieb’s house, she tells Jean that Gordon's mistress had taken over his business and Hermia joined the ice capades like she always wanted to. After mentioning that Jean had been gone for months in what was seemingly a day, Jean tells her that she met Gordon in heaven he's waiting for her in her pipeline. Mrs. Gottlieb excitedly storms out into the backyard where she prepared a fire to cook with so that she could be with her son. While Jean is petrified, Dwight is completely unbothered. The two agreed to love each other so that they can be together after death in their own pipeline. Dwight breaks the fourth wall and ends the play by saying, "Now, we kiss. And the lights go out."

With the help of the theatre discipline’s production staff, _Dead Man’s Cell Phone_ ran three successful shows that amused students and community members. The play was originally produced in 2006 by Woolly Mammoth Theatre Company and premiered in New York’s Playwrights Horizons, Inc. in 2008. There will, of course, be other live theatre performances from UMM in upcoming events to look forward to such as the Play in a Day on Saturday, November 10 and Meinigens’ productions as early as February.

_Photo at top courtesy of UMM, Flickr_