---
title: 'World Mental Health Day 2020: Increased Investment in Mental Health'
media_order: 'WMHD Poster.jpg'
publish_date: '09-10-2020 16:24'
---

**By Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief** _Originally published in Issue 3, Volume 33 of The University Register on October 9, 2020_

Oct. 10 is World Mental Health Day, an annual awareness day that began in 1992 as an attempt to increase world awareness about mental health. Every year, the day has a theme; last year, it was to focus on suicide prevention. This year, because of the toll the COVID-19 pandemic has taken on mental health worldwide, the theme is increased investment in mental health. For the first time, the World Health Organization (WHO) will hold a virtual event promoting global mental health advocacy for World Mental Health Day. Anyone interested can tune in to the live stream on the WHO’s social media channels. If you are not able to view the event, however, there are certainly other ways to participate in spreading mental health awareness. I, for one, would like to use my platform here at The UR to talk about a few important theories in the world of mental health. I believe that understanding these ideas will enable people to better understand and improve their own mental health.

One of my favorite theories in psychology is the Diathesis-Stress Model. It expresses a person’s likelihood of developing a disorder with a negative trendline between that person’s predisposition to develop the disorder and their stress level. In other words, it believes that the higher a person’s predisposition to develop a given disorder, the less stress it will take for that disorder to develop and vice versa. The thing that I love about this theory is it shows that anyone can develop a stress disorder, depending on the amount of stress in their lives (and, I would add, their ability to cope positively with that stress). For me, this theory is a great way of explaining how developing a mental health disorder is not a matter of personal weakness, as some people believe, nor is it impossible for any given 
person to develop one.

As I noted before, the way a person deals with stress will impact how great an effect that stress has on them. This often comes down to a person’s resilience. Resilience is a term used in psychology to describe how well a person deals with stressful situations. If a person has high resilience, they are able to handle stressful situations well and will not be impacted as greatly by them as a person with low resilience. The resilience model details different aspects of a person’s life (biological, psychological, social, and sociocultural) and how skills or assets in these areas can help one’s ability to bounce back from a stressful, challenging situation. Some of these things seem like common sense, such as getting enough sleep, finding a trustworthy support system, and having positive coping mechanisms. However, they can be difficult to fulfill and maintain (especially in college, where many of us are running low on sleep and away from the support systems we have built at home). This is why part of the resiliency model is the belief that people can improve upon these aspects of their lives to mitigate their stress.

Working on new support systems or trying to implement a healthier sleep schedule may seem more straightforward than improving one’s coping mechanisms, but doing this is not impossible. I find it helpful to understand the different types of coping mechanisms so I can identify negative strategies and try to implement more positive ones. There are two main categories of coping mechanisms: palliative and direct. Palliative mechanisms deal with emotion, and are measures one takes to feel less stressed. Direct mechanisms deal with problem-solving action, and are measures one takes to eliminate the source of their stress. The former deals with stress symptoms; the latter deals with the cause of stress. Either of these mechanisms can be adaptive (healthy) or maladaptive (unhealthy). For example, if someone is studying for a test they are anxious about, it would be an adaptive direct strategy because it uses an action (studying) to eliminate the cause of stress (lack of preparedness for the test). Watching a movie instead of studying would be a maladaptive palliative strategy; it relieves stress in the moment, but does not address the actual problem. Knowing the difference between these types of coping mechanisms can help a person identify which ones they typically use, and which ones they need to be using. (Although, I will admit, it is much easier for me to keep watching Netflix even when I know it’s not helping me in the long run.) Change can be hard, but knowing the next step to take is at least more useful than not thinking about the problem at all.

There are many more psychological theories I could discuss, but these are a few that I think are most useful to keep in mind when thinking about mental health improvement. I hope you all have a wonderful, low-stress World Mental Health Day, and are able to take some time to think about how you can nurture your own mental health!

_Image on top courtesy of Mental Health Foundation_