---
title: 'Polynesian Paradise Dancers'
---

**By Alisa Samadani, A&E Editor** _originally published in Issue 10, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, March 8, 2019_

On Saturday, March 2, the Performing Arts Series kicked off 2019 with the arrival of the Polynesian Paradise Dancers. The show was $7 per UMM Student and took place in Edson Auditorium from 7:30 to 8:30. 
The program included various songs, chants, and dances from the Polynesian islands, accompanied by company founder Akemi Welsh’s retelling of the history of Hawaii and Polynesia from the ancient times to the early 2000s. Instruments such as the conch shell, the Maori Poi (small balls attached to flax strings), and the Tahitian drums were used in telling the beautiful history of Polynesian song, dance, and tourism. Some of the dances were in traditional Hawaiian hula, others in Aparima (which means hand kiss), and one dance in particular was called the Slap Dance, which is to be performed by males and was developed in Samoa in the 19th century. The first part show ran for one hour, then held a brief 15-minute intermission, before closing with a 30-minute display of Tahitian and Samoan dances. 
The company, Polynesian Paradise Dancers, was founded by Akemi Welsh in 1993. They have traveled and educated people all across America, as well as having done international tours in Abu Dhabi, Japan, China, Guam, and the Marshall Islands. They have been recognized in movies like “Bedtime Stories” and TV shows such as “Glory Days”, “Backyard Nation”, “Tuckerville”, and “Wizards of Waverly Place”. The company has also performed at the homes of celebrities such as Rob Zombie, former mayor of Los Angeles Jim Hahn, and former governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger. Please stay tuned over the next few months for the 2019-20 Performing Arts Series season announcement, and keep your eyes out for amazing events coming up!
