---
title: 'BSU Wraps Up Black History Month with Soul Food Dinner'
date: 03/08/2019
---

**By Evan Douville, Staff Writer** _Originally published in Issue 10, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, March 8, 2019_

It was time to change our rhythms, and time to focus on celebration and change. On February 28, 2019, the UMM Black Student Union (BSU) hosted the 42nd annual Soul Food Dinner in Oyate hall, as both part of the World Touch Heritage series and a means of gathering community, celebration, and reflection. 

The dinner opened with remarks from BSU President and Vice President Mia King and Layla Akapo, who thanked us for being there. Before we were served food, those in attendance were invited to stand and sing the Black National Anthem, “Lift Every Voice and Sing” by James Weldon Johnson and John Rosamond Johnson. The mood during this was somber as everybody sung softly in chorus. This song was echoed in the beginning of the Sounds of Blackness concert held immediately after the dinner. “It was the adviser of BSU, Charise Deberry’s, idea,” Mia King, president of BSU, told us. “I thought it was beautiful and moving, a perfect way to start the dinner.” After that, we were dismissed to a lovely dinner cooked by members of BSU as well as Sodexo staff, including fried chicken, cornbread, collared greens, and peach cobbler. While everyone was eating, there was a lot of chatter and merriment going on, as students, faculty, staff, and members of the at-large community all enjoyed the dinner in front of them.

After a short while, the presentations continued, beginning with the presentation and reading of the winner of the MLK essay contest held earlier in the month. Eighth grade students were asked to write a letter to an activist they found inspirational, and the winners’ was read at the dinner. Following this began the main course: a presentation from the keynote speaker, UMM alumnus and Social Justice Strategist Dorothy Nins. She began by coming to the presentation podium and dancing a little to get the mood elevated, with music blasting in the hall. There was a lot of laughter and encouraging clapping, and after that, the conversation began. Nins opened her address by asking the audience if we were ready to change. There was a call and response activity, were she would speak and we would reply: “It is time to make a change. I am about to change, and it’s going to hurt.” She joked that we in Minnesota are the ‘Frozen Chosen’ and we didn’t tend to chant loudly back in church, which was true: it took a little while before people in the audience were cheering loudly right alongside her.

She then moved into an activity where she asked us to put our phones away, if only for a moment, and to feel our pulse. Once we found it, Nins let us know that is one of the first steps towards true change: to be quiet, and listen to our hearts. Nins then spoke about how many of the people in attendance--UMM students, millenials and Gen Z, specifically--were unfortunately tasked with the anxieties that the previous generations have brought upon us. The older generations, namely the Boomers, have lost hope for our generation, thinking we’re soft and destroying our economy and relationships with others. And, in a way, their generation was anxious, too. But that’s okay, because according to Nins, the hardest change is reaching out and changing our rhythms, our “intergenerational melodies” that let us reach out to those across the political and social spectrum, and begin true change. 

Finally, she posed that the millenial and Gen Z generations, the students of UMM, would be the generation of innovators and leaders. Nins asked the audience what they thought of group projects in school, asking how many of us liked to do all the work, or preffered to work by themselves. A select few raised their hands. She said that we were going to meet all kinds of people in our lives: the leader, the slacker, the last-minute-r, the one who helps with everything, the loner, and the innovator. She told us that change is brought about quickly, and painfully, by these innovators. And it is our duty to either stand with these innovators, or get out of their way so they can get work done. Nins ended her address with a plea for us, in our daily lives, to greet one another. We are so detached from everything in our lives, that by simply saying hello to one another, and making an impact, we can “change the rhythm, and change the world.”

“Dorothy Nins is a wonderful person and a greater speaker,” King told us. “I simply told her the theme of the dinner and the theme of the World Touch Series this academic year and she prepared a lovely speech. I felt her message in my soul and I hope it reached others especially, students of color on campus who feel it's hard to make a difference or feel they are not being heard. 
Following a round of uproarious applause, the mood shifted to the next part of the evening: a powerpoint entitled “What Does BSU Mean to You?”, which was a collection of student testimonies from BSU members about how the club has impacted their lives at UMM. The responses were universally positive, praising the club as a place to truly be oneself, and to not be afraid to be involved and loved. Many of these also talked about how BSU has had a tremendous impact on the UMM community, broadening it and creating a more welcome community overall for students. 
King believed the presentation was especially effective: “I feel that my BSU members said everything that needed to be said. They also did it very eloquently[...]we wanted to pay homage to what the Black students, staff, and faculty have built for us. BSU is more than an organization, it is a community built by those who came before and us. I truly felt it was only right that we then express our appreciation for this community by asking members to share what BSU means to them.” It’s a fun place to be, to learn, to be oneself, and to find community in numbers.

The last part of the evening included a tribute to former faculty member Bill Stewart, with tributes read by faculty members David Aronson and Roland Guyotte (who was not in attendance), as well as Nins herself, who worked closely with Stewart. Stewart was a man of boundless integrity, working hard for many students of color and minority groups to help them feel at home at UMM, and to ensure they got the resources they needed. He worked harder than many other faculty members, Aronson and Nins said. Nins said Stewart was also a man who believed in making mistakes to become better; as her advisor, Stewart always believed there was more work to be done. Stewart continues to leave his mark on the UMM campus to this day.

Closing out the evening, BSU advisor Charise DeBerry thanked the audience for being there, as well as the executive officers of BSU for organizing and hosting the event, Dorothy Nins for coming and speaking, Sodexo for catering, and the faculty members who came and presented. DeBerry encouraged attendees to see the Sounds of Blackness concert that began right after the dinner ended. 

_photo above provided by UMM Flickr_
