---
title: 'Morris Sucks at Identifying Hate Speech'
media_order: Mic.jpeg
date: '08-02-2018 18:40'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Tim Schrempp, Writer** _uploaded at 6:40 p.m. on Thursday, February 8, 2018_

Everyone on campus is concerned about the concept of hate speech and the boogey man of violence it apparently brings. I’m going to make this clear: the College Republicans and I do not support racism, prejudice, or any form of hate towards any individual. However, the students here are far from the best judges to determine what is and what isn’t hate speech. 

During my time here at Morris, I have met some of the most easily upsettable people imaginable. This campus has a new controversy every week with students taking crisis appointments at counseling services and going to the police because they are upset by emails from the College Republicans. It’s absurd that students feel the need to schedule crises appointments, which should be reserved for students with mental health issues that are at risk to themselves or others, not a student who read an email from a club they disliked. I doubt I am alone when I say I find it laughable that the same people that claim all police officers are murderous, racist, and homophobic thugs will quickly go begging to those same police officers for protection because of emails about a heterosexual panel or _The NorthStar_ being distributed on campus. If only you could just ignore us and go about your life like mature and rational adults if you do not have the same opinions as we do.  We are just too whiny sometimes. That’s why we don’t have the listserv; every week some students were offended by something College Republicans said and went to the police claiming that seeing an email that they were free to read or ignore was harassment. The way things look on the Facebook Forum, it doesn’t look like it will last long if it continues to be a place where people try to fight opposing viewpoints instead of just absorbing the information they choose to. If they don’t complain to the chancellor or the police, then these students who are accusing us of using hate speech will send threatening emails to the officers of College Republicans telling us they “hate us,” sometimes even describing how much they want to hurt us. (Many of which we have used to make a very nice collage.) We as a campus have proven that we are not mature enough to determine what is and isn’t hate speech without our emotions influencing us.

Most Morris students define hate speech as anything they don’t like and as a result, we have students looking for hate speech everywhere. Last semester, this campus was shaken by two events; posters reading “it’s okay to be white” were hung across campus and a swastika was placed on the Louie’s Lower Level blackboard. Believing that they were related, some students demanded action from the university. However, the events had no proven connection and the swastika was drawn backward. BSU made the smart decision of ignoring the “it’s okay to be white” posters while mostly white students demanded action from the university, causing a great deal of psychological harm to other white students at this “racism” on campus. As a College Republican, I deal with a lot of people calling mostly trivial things hate speech. On listserv2 I can’t say, “We have Columbus Day” because that’s hate speech, even though the daily planners sold in the university bookstore all say “Columbus Day,” not “Indigenous Peoples day.” When KUMM illegally ended an episode of _Deplorable Radio_ mid-broadcast for saying “tranny,” people constantly changed it to a story about hate speech. Meanwhile, the KUMM board all claimed it actually had nothing to do with the word used (because it doesn’t break any FCC codes like they originally stated) and were just mad that we didn’t fill out the spin-o-Tron the week before, even though it was broken. People want to blame us for some random assholes threatening the student leader of KUMM even though we publicly denounced these threats, but the same students still happily send us threatening emails and post about wanting to physically harm us on their Facebook walls. We need to understand that the First Amendment protects all speech that isn’t violent speech and, whether you like it or not, that includes what you deem to be hate speech, like “tranny” and yes, even the despicable phrase “it’s okay to be white.” 

But I will be fair, I understand why people are easily offended. We’re passionate. Personally, I’m easy to offend. For example, I was deeply offended the time a professor at UMM went online and said that writers for _The NorthStar_ should quote, “Fuck off and die,” and the university didn’t give a rat’s ass about it, nor take any action. I didn’t send this professor threatening emails, and I don’t go to his office to dump coffee on his research papers. I drew attention to the matter and I leave it up to the public to decide if this is asinine behavior.

As a public university, we need to follow the Constitution of our country, including the right to allow people to say and do things we don’t like. The right to free speech and peaceful assembly is guaranteed to anyone who isn’t doing any harm. There is a huge difference between being offensive and being threatening that we as a campus have proven we are not mature enough to determine for ourselves.  College Republicans have done nothing illegal or even unethical by upsetting you when you can simply ignore us and go about your daily lives. To be honest, I refuse to listen to any argument against the College Republicans being violent while we regularly receive emails threatening us with violence because we are controversial.

_Graphic by_ **Christian Pfeiffer, Editor-in-Chief**