---
title: 'Rebirth and Resurrection in the Time of the Peanut'
media_order: 'baby nut.jpg'
date: '07-02-2020 19:20'
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _Originally published in Issue 8, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, February 7, 2020_

When I originally decided to write this article, I found it a bit silly that I was about to write a eulogy for a fictional peanut. Over the course of the past couple of weeks, however, the reasoning behind this article has changed more than once. Even during the writing process, more information was brought to my attention, and I now feel that I have stumbled into a bigger mess than I could have expected. While I still intend to address the death of Mr. Peanut, I would also like to address his miraculous return, Baby Nut, and the fierce competition between current fictional babies.

Many of us are familiar with Mr. Peanut, the well-dressed anthropomorphic peanut representing Planters. On January 22, Planters informed us all through a Super Bowl ad campaign and through social media that their beloved fictional legume had passed away. As someone who doesn’t have much interest in Super Bowl ads, I was not aware of this news until a few days later when I received a message from a coworker asking, “Hey, Desmond, will you be writing an article about the tragic death and heroic sacrifice of Mr. Planters Peanut?” My response was mostly of disbelief, not because I was emotionally attached to this character, but instead because I thought this was such a ridiculous idea for an ad campaign. This response was full of strong language, however, so I will not be sharing it here, and will elaborate my opinions a bit more delicately here.

For those of you who may be confused, I will say that this statement would be nothing without the death of Mr. Peanut, so it is only fair that the video in question is discussed. For the sake of chaos and misinformation, I only watched this video once, very quickly, assuming my initial reaction would be most appropriate for Variety. The ad shows Mr. Peanut, after swerving off the road to avoid hitting an armadillo, dangling off the side of a cliff with his commercial co-stars. To cut down on weight and to allow the other two to climb up to safety, Mr. Peanut smiles and lets go, falling gracefully into the abyss below. A touching moment, yes, but it was unclear to me at first how this would benefit Planters. After doing some searching, I found the statement from VaynerMedia, who had been behind this specific campaign. This agency credited Marvel in inspiring the ad, specifically referring to the internet’s response to the death of Iron Man. This made enough sense, and pointed me toward social media. 

It was then that I took to Twitter and saw how true it is that any attention is good attention. While we could sit down and take hours to discuss every reaction to this ad being unveiled, it’s best to simply say that this ad gained a lot of attention from other brands as well as regular Twitter users. I figured this would be the end of it: people would make their jokes, I would write a goofy eulogy for my section, and we would all move on. I could not have been more wrong. As this article began to form in my mind, I was interrupted by another message from a coworker, updating me on the situation. Though I, again, was a bit behind on current issues, I was informed that Planters had either paused or fully taken back the ad campaign. Though I’m sure the company meant no harm in trying to gain fans over a pop-culture death, people were already mourning the loss of another pop-culture figure: Kobe Bryant. I do not mean any disrespect toward those lost in the incident nor do I think it is my place as Variety Editor to dive into actual news, so I do not intend to elaborate much on this point in the overall timeline. There was no way to avoid mentioning this, as it directly influenced the ad campaign and of course the general public. Though the #RIPeanut campaign was paused, the company did choose to air their ad during the Super Bowl anyway, broadcasting Mr. Peanut’s funeral. This is where things took yet another turn.

I waited until writing this article to actually watch the funeral ad, as I wanted once again to include my fresh, initial reaction. (Though this ad was only 30 seconds long, the amount of time I spent staring at my phone screen in confusion after watching it was embarrassing. I gave myself a headache trying to collect my thoughts, which has frustrated me and pushed this further into Op-Ed territory. I don’t plan on subjecting the general public to my terrible opinions, though.) In this advertisement, we see that many loved ones have come to remember Mr. Peanut at his funeral. Mr. Clean is in the background, though I’m not sure why, but to that I say “good for him!” In an emotional moment, the Kool-Aid man sheds a single magical tear that soaks into the dirt of the grave. From the soil, the ashes, or the peanut butter, rises a new heir to the Planters throne: BABY NUT. Baby Nut is very clearly in the same vein of lovable characters as such famous babies as Baby Groot and Baby Yoda, yet is simply not right. Maybe it’s the dolphin noises, maybe it’s the Lisa Frank-esque eyes, or maybe it is the fact that Baby Nut is the same old Mr. Peanut as ever, but i  an infant’s body. This is where the difference lies: Baby Yoda may be 50, but he does not have the mind of an old man. Baby Groot may be his resurrected self, but again his mentality matches his body. Baby Nut is a 104 year old infant who has a livestream online of his every action.

I try not to get too involved in politics, but I think Mr. Peanut should have stayed dead. Maybe I should simply end here. I will say, though, that I can think of a Baby Nut origin story that could have been acceptable. If I had been some sleep-deprived marketing intern helping out with the campaign, here is what I would say: Keep Baby Nut and keep the magic tears, BUT let Baby Nut be a new being, not some poor resurrected shell of a man. Now you’ve got a new and lovable baby character (the internet loves that shit) with two dads (congrats, you ended homophobia!) This is a joke, of course. Baby Nut is an atrocity that never should have seen the light of day, and this is the last of my energy that I will devote to this wretched cause. (And no, please don’t ask me about Baby Gru. I was already  halfway done with this article when I was informed of the new baby on the block, and I refuse to comment on him. Sorry, Steve Carell.)

