---
title: 'Nimble: Artists Who Work Across Mediums'
date: '07-02-2020 18:45'
---

**By Alisa Samadani, A&E Editor** _Originally published in Issue 8, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, February 7, 2020_

On Thursday, January 23, the Morrison Art Gallery opened a special exhibit to the public, titled “Nimble: Artists Who Work Across Mediums.” The exhibition opened Thursday evening and will continue to be available until its closing reception on Wednesday, February 26. The exhibition consists of artists displaying proficiency in 
more than one medium, with both levels filled full of beautiful pieces.

Yoonmi Nam is a faculty member at the University of Kansas, where she has been working since 2001. Her works are in museums across the country, and have been shown both nationally and internationally. Her porcelain pieces are an expression of the contradicting sense of time that man-made objects bring. “Sketchbook”, one
of her porcelain collections on display, speaks of the way memories are captured on paper, and later discarded from time altogether. Her choice to glaze each of her porcelain pieces is clever, attempting to immortalize these pieces in a way, when they are but man-made pieces, pieces that will eventually be broken down and tossed away, like a distant memory. The same concept can be applied to Nam’s collection of lithographs, which shows plants emerging from disposable objects, including yoghurt cups, Styrofoam containers, and paper takeout boxes. There are fifteen pieces by Nam currently on display, with some pieces on the main floor as well as on the upper floor of the gallery.

Liz Miller is a professor of installation and drawing at Minnesota State University - Mankato. Her installations and works on paper have been shown in solo and group exhibitions regionally, nationally, and internationally. Her topographies, displayed along the back wall of the main floor, consist of multiple different varieties of rope, tied precariously to create powerful yet highly vulnerable structures overhead. In Miller’s artist statement, she writes:

“The repeated act of tying by hand integrates an emphatic sense of strength, while the flexibility and nuance of the textile material ensures structural permutations. The resulting works are only quasi-architectural, providing metaphorical insight laced with humor as related to a variety of structural and systemic behavior.”

However, Miller’s mixed media tells a different story on paper. Her two pieces on display, “Spontaneous Resistance 05” and “Spontaneous Resistance 06,” are an explosion of colors and textures gathered on a piece of paper, alluding to the chaos in creation, the beauty of the unknown. In a way, the two collections share the idea of precarious structure, with the knotted topographies being three-dimensional, and “Spontaneous Resistance” being two-dimensional. All of Miller’s works on display can be found on the back wall of the main floor of the gallery.

Sara Allen Prigodich is a freelance artist whose works have been displayed nationally and internationally, in both juried and invitational exhibitions. She also has work in public and private collections. Her professional experience includes positions such as studio assistant, ceramics department technician, resident artist, and instructor.

Prigodich’s ceramic sculptures are, in the artist’s words, “physical representations of our psychological incongruities: the doubts, questions, and shifts in perspectives through which we view the memories of our lives.” The sculptures are ceramics thatare being held by a thin wooden structure; the ceramic seemingly slipping away from the wooden framework below carries strong feelings of anxiety, unsure of where the figure is heading, just as we are unsure of where we are heading in the near future. Prigodich has a few watercolor pieces as well, with each piece carrying soothing, near dreamlike imagery in each frame. Prigodich has three watercolor pieces and three ceramic sculptures on display on the upper floor of the gallery. Image courtesy of Sara Allen Prigodich. 

Melissa Zexter is a freelance artist whose works have been shown nationally and internationally, including shows at Muriel Guepin Gallery in New York, USA; Robert Mann Gallery in New York, USA; Bronx Museum of the Arts; The Fuller Craft Museum in Massachusetts, USA; and The Triennial Design Museum in Milan, Italy. Zexter took an interesting approach to her work, utilizing thread and gelatin silver prints to accentuate certain aspects of her chosen prints. By combining embroidery with photography, Zexter can transform the two-dimensional image into a three-dimensional object, drawing out ideas of identity, memory, and technology; the image, once muted, begins to find a voice within itself. Zexter’s piece, “Girl in Bath,” strategically places the threads around a modern object, a bathtub, and combined with the oil paintings, create this dual-image of a pond and a bathtub, a cross between modernity and the natural world. Complimented by the ominous black shadow over the edge of the tub, there is a feeling of unease, of vulnerability for the woman. All of Zexter’s pieces share a theme of red thread and a woman in frame, possibly hinting at the challenges women face in art, as well as in the modern world in general. Zexter has ten pieces displayed on the main floor of the gallery, along the walls closest to the doorway.