---
title: 'Mouse Hunt: Nearly an Unspeakable Thing'
date: '06-03-2020 01:52'
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _Originally published in Issue 10, Volume 32 of The University Register on March 6, 2020_

Earlier this week, while trying to get some work done, my brain decided I needed to turn my night into a Nathan Lane movie marathon. The not-so-logical evidence that my brain provided in support of this idea was hard to argue with. After all, Nathan Lane is my celebrity crush. The idea, then, was simply that watching movies featuring Nathan Lane would remove the stress of this dreaded slump in the middle of my semester. I decided to take the rest of the day off. 

My night started off with “The Producers,” the 2005 remake of a goofy Mel Brooks movie from the 1960s. The Producers has always been one of my favorite movies and never fails to brighten my day. After finishing this movie which I would rank second on my all-time favorites list, I decided to take a bold step and try out a movie I have never seen before. My search brought me to a film from the 90s called “The Birdcage” starring Nathan Lane and Robin Williams as a gay couple who pretend to be straight to please their new in-laws. This movie taught me that Nathan Lane looks amazing in drag, and while there were some problematic depictions of queer people, I found the story pretty cute. There’s more that I can say about this movie, but that would require an entire separate article that I don’t have the time or the energy to write. (Remember, I had taken the evening off to watch this in the first place... the very picture of procrastination.) 

The thrilling conclusion of my night was when I decided to return to a movie that I had not seen since I was very small: “Mouse Hunt.” Sure, I remember this movie being goofy, but I was not prepared for the sheer levels of slapstick nonsense that I was about to endure. I do not think that I am qualified to give a real review of this movie, but I sure am allowed to voice my opinion as loud as I would like, as this is my section of the newspaper. If I want to yell about “Mouse Hunt,” then so be it!

The story behind the movie is simple enough: two brothers who are not alike in any way find themselves having to share the belongings of their father after he passes away. One of the items that they take ownership of after his passing is a large and spooky house that they find is worth A LOT of money. Do they want this money? Hell yes they do! Now, it is only a matter of cleaning the house and restoring it to its former glory in time for the upcoming auction. The problem that lies between the brothers and these vast fortunes, however, is one small and cunning mouse. Cute story, right? 

So here we are. We’ve got a goofy story in a goofy kids movie with a pretty decent cast. (When I say “decent,” what I mean is that I really like Nathan Lane and Christopher Walken, but couldn’t name any of the other actors in the movie.) So what went wrong? Why do I find this movie so utterly terrifying? What was the deal with the bathtub? I do not expect any one person to be able to find these answers in his or her lifetime. 

I think that the answer I am most comfortable with is that the mouse really is the problem. I’m not just saying that to take the side of the main characters. I genuinely am afraid of that rodent. (Sorry to spoil the movie for you, but it came out in 1997 so that’s not my problem.) Other than the two brothers and their father, it seems that anyone who wrongs this rodent is subjected to the terrible fate of being locked inside the trunk in the attic of the house. We, as the audience, nearly get to witness this when Christopher Walken’s character, an exterminator, is defeated by the mouse and is found inside the trunk. Unfortunately, the fight happens offscreen and we just get to hear it later as the exterminator had recorded parts of it. Should there be a 2020s remake of “Mouse Hunt,” I would love to see this scene in all of its cursed wonder. I would not consider the mouse the villain, however. While he may be some ancient horror, he is not evil. After all, he was in the house before the brothers. If anything, they are more violent to him than he is to them, though I suspect he’s holding back a bit. 

So what is it that happens when we aren’t watching the mouse? Is he who he says he is? Would the movie have ended differently if he had defeated the brothers instead of joining forces with them? While I have stated that I would not call him the villain, I would argue that he has the potential to be the most alarming villain we’ve seen in cinematic history. But what do I know, I’m just a guy who loves Nathan Lane. 