---
title: 'LAN Party: Dusk til Dawn '
media_order: lanparty_new.jpg
published: true
date: '21-09-2017 00:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Michael Small, A&E Editor** _originally published in Issue 1, Volume 30 of The University Register on Friday, September 21, 2017_

_Photo courtesy of_ **Michael Small**

Another school year means more parties. While the LAN Party may not be the first kind of party that came to mind, it sure set the bar high. A whopping 31 hours, Fall 2017’s LAN Party put on by the Computer Science Club featured wall to wall entertainment. 

It started off humbly. The projector for "Dance Dance Revolution" was still being set up as RSVP’ers starting showing up at 4pm. They (about eight or so) spread out across five rows of tables and started setting up. There were enough outlets and ethernet cables to go around, but the closest thing to a technical problem that I ever saw was that two RSVP’ers sitting next to each other discovered after a lot of confusion that one of their television remotes controlled both of their screen. Beyond setup, not everyone had obstacles getting into game in the same way. Nick Bushway set up his laptop and second monitor and then proceeded to work on stats homework for a couple hours. RStudio may not be fun and glamourous but it was a necessary evil to overcome as he spent most of his weekend setting up, tearing down, and staying up the first night until 9am. Props to volunteers like him that made the LAN Party possible.

Things started heating up as the doors opened up to the general public at 5pm. Within the hour, people were playing things like "Overwatch", "Super Smash Brothers", "Dark Souls", Borderlands, "American Truck Simulator", "LoL", "Nidhogg 2" and "Tekken 7", to name a few. I didn’t bring anything because my PC is a baby that will be cradled in my room until the summer, and my laptop is garbage that can barely run ten year old games. I was in luck because there were plenty of consoles set up for everyone to use. Hits on these were "Smash", "Guitar Hero", and "Rockband 4". Yet most of the games I took part in were on people's’ personal gaming rigs. One person whose first name was the only thing I caught –Carter –was more than happy to let people play games with them on their PS4. I jumped into "Nidhogg 2" not knowing what the hell a Nidhogg was, or why there were apparently two of them. Apparently a Nidhogg is a giant worm. The game plays like football, except instead of getting touchdown you try to jump into a Nidhogg to be eaten, and instead of running a ball in you run a sword through the other player and then book it to the end. One shot, one kill with not only a sword but daggers, bows, and hand to hand brawling. Respawns are quick, so no matter how hard you kill each other they will still be hot on your tail. My opponent and I went head to head for a long time, though we probably died just as much from slipping off a cliff as we did to each other. I lost my ground due to their cunning skills with the bow and they completely stomped me. 

Braeden Mcdougall on "Overwatch": He recently took up Mercy as his new main. He is excited for her new Valkyrie ultimate ability that gives a damage boost. He says that he is glad for the Mercy changes as he thinks Overwatch has been getting stale lately. Through the entirety of the interview, he tore up using Reaper. He said that the last time he went to the LAN Party, he stayed up so late that he said “I was so dead that I wanted to die.” 

Others were happy to gush about their rig’s specs. When I interviewed Jon Anoten as he was playing "Borderland" Co-op with Tim Schremp, he seamlessly spouted off every piece of his PC. His rig sported Intel i5 7600k overclocked to 4.3GHZ with 16GB DDR4 3200MHZ RAM, with a EVGA GTX 1080. An Asrock Z270 Taichi Motherboard. 2TB SSD/HD hybrid. I am a PC gamer myself, but even I had to ask him later in person to clarify about half of what he said. The bottom line is that he gets a crispy 60fps in any game out there on the market and has room for plenty of them. What was refreshing was that nobody, to my knowledge, argued about PCs and consoles. Everyone came together in a geeky harmony for that 31 hours; nobody antagonized each other about their setups. That said, plenty of usual gamer shenanigans occurred. Jon, Nick and their friend Jonah jumped on a "Trouble in Terrorist Town (TTT)" server. TTT is like the card game Werewolf where a fraction of players are anonymously chosen to be the bad guys that try to kill off all the other innocent players without anyone but the bad people knowing who is who, but TTT has guns. They vigorously screen peaked each other to see who was the traitor, who was most likely one of them because only them and two Russian players overseas were playing. Jon kept getting the role of traitor so many rounds in a row that everyone else started killing him on sight. When the three put away their differences, they used their screen peaking for a greater evil and used it to single out the Russian players who definitely understood English but only used it back to swear at them. That period of 3 to 4am was Cold War II. 

Speaking of 4am, plenty of people persisted until Saturday morning. People like Andrew Kroska were up all night and morning playing games like "Rocket League" and "PLAYERUNKNOWN'S BATTLEGROUNDS". Many other players persisted, most commonly playing games like "LoL" or "Overwatch". Apart from one person who only stayed up that long because they were locked out of their apartment (people, on-call is a thing), most were sustained on Redbull and Monster with a fire in their heart to play games. I stayed up until 7am so Nick Bushway would stay sane, playing games like "Ultimate Chicken Horse" and "Genital Jousting" with him at times and watching him play WoW in the downtime. 

I can not speak for most of Saturday as I slept until noon and then relearned how to function as a human the rest of the day, but the party persisted until the next midnight. As I passed by around 4pm, many of the people who were there when I left at 7am were still there. I am betting they got a nap of sorts in sometime between that time, but I choose to believe they were running on Redbull fumes the entire time. When I left at 7am and drove back with the sun in my eyes I wondered if it was wall worth it. When you are up 24 hours, you have to wonder why you stayed up so long. As I slumped into bed and laid my head on the pillow, I knew it was worth it, and I knew I was going to the next one.  


