---
title: 'Edsger: Program for CSci Students Made by CSci Students'
media_order: edsgercrop.PNG
date: '08-12-2017 00:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Michael Small, A&E Editor** _originally published in Issue 6, Volume 30 of The University Register on December 8, 2017_

On Monday, November 27 at 5 p.m., two UMM Computer Science seniors gave a presentation on their directed study. As per Computer Science Professor Nic McPhee’s email to the CSci Club mailing list, “Tony [Song] and Laverne [Schrock] have been working this semester on Edsger, a browser-based proof-checker for CSci 1302 and similar courses covering propositional logic.” The program is named after Edsger W. Dijkstra, a pioneer in computer science. To check it out for yourself, go to umm-csci.github.io/edsger. 

Propositional logic classes like 1302 have distinct challenges compared to many other math classes, one of the biggest being that logic classes often do not have readily available or appropriate tools like calculators or Mathematica to check proofs. “There are proof checkers out there, but they are mostly aimed at ‘industrial strength’ users and not at beginners in a 1000-level intro class.” Another problem is that the open-ended nature of proofs means that there are no answers to practice exercises at the end of the book for students to confirm their results when trying practice problems. Lastly, McPhee said that “One of the challenges I've seen in CSci 1302 when compared to intro programming courses like CSci 1201 or 1301 is that students often struggle to know if what they've written in a proof is correct; they often don't know if code they've written is correct,” but they have tools that identify errors in the code that is preventing it from running properly. “In 1302 (and other proof-oriented courses), however, the sheet of paper in front of you provides no feedback, and students often don't know that they're badly confused until they get homework back, by which point we've moved onto new material.” Their proof checker, Edsger, is currently aimed at checking proofs in the first few foundational chapters of the book used by the CSci 1302 class when students need resources like proof checkers the most. 

Song and Schrock’s presentation covered the tools they used and demonstrated the use of their program. They started from scratch, using the computer language ClojureScript among other tools and resources. They stated in their presentation that their two goals were not only to “develop a tool enabling students to check their proofs,” but that “the tool should be a website without server-side code.” The advantage of this is that teachers and students would be able to use the site more readily as it is much easier than using a program or website that requires setting up and maintaining a server. Currently, Edsger can validate one step of a proof; proofs may have many steps but the two extended the system so the program can chain together multiple parts. 

The proof checking-process that Song and Schrock implemented has multiple steps, but they say the two biggest takeaways from the process is that: 1) “The user provides two logic expressions that are supposed to be equal,” as illustrated by the top and bottom expression in the picture below, and 2) “Our code searches through the two expressions and any differences between them must be explained by the rule provided by the user.” Together, these two steps essentially mean that the program "searches through the expressions and verifies that all differences can be explained by the rule.” If the rule was used correctly, ‘true’ is returned and the student used a proof rule correctly to advance the proof; if not, ‘false’ is returned and the student did something wrong. With this computer feedback, students can fix their proofs and avoid finishing the proof on false assumptions before submitting the proof on paper for grading.

McPhee mentioned that there are “lots of opportunities for extending the system, so we're definitely looking for people who might want to continue work on this. We'd also love feedback from folks on whether they would have used something like this if it had been available, or would be interested in using it if they haven't yet taken CSci 1302.” CSCI students interested in picking up the project as a directed study opportunity after Song and Schrock graduate this semester or who are interested in giving feedback on the program should speak with McPhee, Song, and Shrock. With further work the proof checker could be of great use to other students. Faculty and students would like the proof checker to be able to do things like chain multiple proof steps together, allow students to pick out rules from a pre-selected rule list in addition to typing out the rules manually, and for messages about student errors to give more details on what is incorrect, to name a few potential new features. One concern with these new features, however, is that faculty would like to ensure that new features for the proof checker does not make it become a prover that does the work for students by brute force. It will take time to become that powerful, but active participation by students is necessary to continue this by-students, for-students project.