---
title: 'Be Bothered, Be Very Bothered, by the Dystopia of Sorry to Bother You'
media_order: sorry2-min.jpg
---

**By Trey Goodsell, Staff Writer** _originally published in Issue 1, Volume 31 of The Univeristy Register on Friday, April 14, 2018_

Sorry to Bother You is a revelation. The film is the rare political satire, but not one of The Daily Show or its ilk, pandering to an audience in disbelief over current events, but rather one with a strong point of political view. If anything, the film is sharply critical of being in disbelief over the shape of our country, seeing clearly that this is the realization of capitalism. Through this story, the whole of our society that permits widespread indignity to exist alongside unprecedented avarice is skewered. 

Sorry to Bother You, directed by Oakland native Boots Riley, is the story of Cassius Green, a perpetually underemployed late twenty-something struggling to make rent on the garage he shares with his girlfriend, Detroit. Cassius starts a new job with Regal View when the film opens, a telemarketing company that sells encyclopedias to people who most certainly have more pressing needs, as the film hilariously portrays in an early montage. A co-worker, taking pity on Cassius’s ability to sell, advises he adopt his “white voice.” From there, the film follows the consequences of Cassius’s success through a labor strike; a top floor made of “white voices;” a reality show that pokes that industry (and its audience) right in the eye; a company selling slavery as the ultimate fate of labor; and a tech-bro billionaire that tells signifies just what Riley, a communist, thinks of capitalist idolatry and where it will lead. 

Going into the film, there are some concepts that will help your comprehension. One, code-switching, is the act of changing your demeanor, voice, word choice, or really any physical characteristic in response to the spaces, institutions, or people you are interacting with. For audience purposes, this is when black people avoid African-American Vernacular English (or ebonics) in conversation, or more obvious and cringy, when white people try to appropriate slang to gain cultural cache or authenticity. Another is compassionate capitalism, where corporations do their best to portray their actions as being mutually uplifting with society while slowly draining labor and government of their power. Think of the co-option of the green movement by corporate branding which staves off regulation. Or philanthropists who argue for their taxes to be lowered, who expect charity to pick up the slack left by government’s shrinking, all the while remaining unaccountable to the public. The film makes the point clearly that only solidarity with labor can ensure dignity and uplift with society.

Now for the real reason you will remember the film: its sense of style. The film’s stylistic flourishes would be impressive of any director; here, they beg for disbelief as Riley is a first-timer. Edits convey a great sense of motion when Cassius is on the phone with potential buyers early in the film. The panic on his face, signaling the awkwardness and discomfort that telemarketing emodies, leaves you locked into a state of cringe. Later in the film, the edits are still conveying Cassius’s control over the conversation, leaving the answerer caught off guard. These edits are a great joy, and convey the mastery of visual language Riley has marshalled. Consider as well how space is morphed and moved through by the camera. Crowds suffocate during a strike, revealing a clever ploy by the protestors or an unexpected gag. Bedrooms transform from impoverished to posh while retaining where objects are relative to each other. A party is kept at a distance from the camera while Cassius’s internal conflict is realized, leaving him doubting his motives for climbing the corporate ladder. 

I keep many other stylistic choices secret, for fear of ruining the joy, surprise, and horror that the film so expertly deploys. Just remember, Boots Riley is sorry to bother you.