---
title: Traveling
media_order: pexels-photo-114798.jpeg
date: '23-03-2018 08:36'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Desmond Homann, Staff Writer** _uploaded at 8:38 a.m. on Friday, March 23, 2018._

I think I was in an elevator. It seemed like an elevator and it moved like an elevator, but I couldn’t quite tell if it was going up or down. I was nervous, and my heart seemed to climb into my throat as the elevator began to move. I remember pressing a button; there was only one button, and I knew it was meant for me. Was my name beside the button? Could I read it? I wasn’t sure, but I realized that I was supposed to be here—that I was on my way somewhere important, perhaps a meeting. Yes, that’s what it was.

My first few minutes in the elevator were frightening, and the clanging and screeching of metal coming from just outside the walls was only making things worse. However, I knew I had to keep still and wait nicely. It was difficult, and at times, I could feel my legs shaking. The lights were just a little too bright, reflecting off of the polished metal walls. There was a speaker overhead, but I could not hear anything over the sounds outside.

After the first hour—or maybe it was longer—the metal droning faded away. Now I was able to hear the music overhead and I did not feel quite so trapped. I couldn’t identify the instruments being used to make the music, but I enjoyed the way it made me feel like I was swimming through strawberry jam. I closed my eyes and repeated a couple things to myself—little things like my name, my favorite family vacation, and the name of my childhood best friend. I didn’t want to risk forgetting these things over the course of my long trip.

The hours seemed to turn to days; everything felt so slow, as if I were on a record player and someone was resting their finger on the surface of the record. What record was it? I couldn’t remember my favorite song, but I knew it had a wonderful piano part. The music in the elevator was gone—it had been for a long time. The walls around me seemed to have stretched a bit too, but I didn’t like looking up or down as it made me dizzy. I stayed this way for quite some time, and as the elevator continued to move, I realized how alone I was. Being alone with yourself isn’t always a bad thing and sometimes it’s good to have extra space for your thoughts. That is, however, unless your thoughts are moving just as fast as the elevator and just as slow as the passing of time.

All at once, the movement stopped. It was deafeningly silent; I couldn’t even hear my own heart beating anymore. The doors did not open right away, but I knew I had arrived, and I was ready to see who—or perhaps what—had brought me here. I had waited long enough, or maybe I hadn’t waited at all. I had so many questions, and there would never be enough time to answer them all. With a faint whoosh, the doors in front of me slid open, letting in the air, which was heavier than I expected, and settled into my lungs like dust. I thought back to when I was child, and had learned in school about those people working in the mines in Venezuela, how their lungs were so full of dust; silicosis is the term, I believe. This feeling was not the same, but was instead almost comforting. I took a step forward. The room I was entering, if one could call it a room, was cluttered with papers and trinkets and old paintings and things of that nature. My eyes were unable to focus on where the walls should have been, which made the room seem to go on forever while still being quite cramped.

There was a man in this room. He sat at a desk that was several paces ahead of me. There were too many things at his desk—things that didn’t seem to belong. The man sat quietly, and carefully he glued pieces of a model ship together. With a quick glance around the room, I noticed many other models, most of which were ships or trains. I approached his desk and rapped my knuckles against it gently. Surprised, he lifted his head and his eyes met mine. This was a face free of imperfections, yet his eyes had seen the rise and fall of all of the world’s great empires. Grinning, he told me that I was early to my appointment, and he asked how I felt. I told him the truth, that my bones felt the way that old books smell, and that I was still breathing in dust that wasn’t there. The man, whose name I was never given, assured me that it was normal to feel that way and that I would fit in perfectly here. With one delicate movement, he rose to his feet and took my hand. His hands were surprisingly soft, and I thought for a moment that he may not have been touching me at all. This thought was chased away, however, when he began to pull me through the room. We weaved between boxes and file cabinets, and the warm light filling the room made our shadows dance along the carpet. As we walked, we talked about the trip here, about the time spent in the elevator, and what was next to come. He calmly reassured me that I would be happy here—happy to come home.
