---
title: '2020 Election Special Report'
media_order: 'vote mn.jpg'
date: '09-10-2020 16:13'
---

**By Erik Kjer, News Editor** _Originally published in Issue 3, Volume 33 of The University Register on October 9, 2020_

Local and state elections make up the majority of our ballots, but it’s often difficult to learn about who’s on the ballot before entering the voting booth. Election day is rapidly approaching and in the interest of educating voters and encourages voter turnout the University Register is dedicating almost all of this issue’s news coverage
to contested local and state elections. Candidates were ultimately given complete control over what to submit, but were encouraged to describe themselves, what they believe their most important responsibility would be, what they wanted to accomplish, what they’re opposed to, and what distinguishes them from the other candidates. Here are their responses:

**Murray Smart** _MN House of Representatives, Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party_

[I am a] lifelong resident of Minnesota, born and raised in Windom, Minnesota. We have lived in Beardsley since 1979. [I’m a] husband of 41 years, father of 3, grandfather of 3. [I am also a] school counselor, teacher, coach, and driver education instructor. I have served the communities of Beardsley, Beardsley-Browns Valley, Clinton-Graceville-Beardsley, Breckenridge, and Chokio-Alberta throughout my education career. I have served as President of the Minnesota School Counselors Association and am currently the MSCA Government Relations Co-Chair. I have been Chair of the Minnesota ACT Council. In 2016, I helped secure a bipartisan 12.1 million dollar "Support Our Students" grant that provided student support personnel to Minnesota schools. 52% of the grant dollars went to rural schools. I have a deep passion for our outdoors and the future of our home—the Earth. I believe Minnesotans elect their fellow neighbors to represent them to act on their behalf. They value legislators who remember that they are there to serve as public servants to listen to learn, ask to understand, and act on that insight. Too often, those elected have put party before the people and as a result issues that must be addressed by the legislature are ignored, lost and forgotten. I will put people and problem-solving first. I value a working economy and working markets that provide a level playing field for all, high quality, accessible and affordable healthcare, fully funded public education, investments in local infrastructure, clean energy, a healthy environment, and equity and fair justice for all. I am opposed to legislators who refuse to do what they were elected to do. We have a deeply divided partisan legislature and it is high time we elect legislators who will roll up their sleeves and get to work and do the job that they were elected to do. What we have right now is not working. We need legislators who will act as public servants. We don't need legislators who spend their time trying to divide us. We need legislators who will work for the betterment of all of us. We truly are all in this together. I believe and act on the belief that our strength comes from our ability to be there for each other. I have the ability and drive to work with people from different places and different races. For all of us to be free we cannot let a greedy few and the politicians they pay, divide us against each other. It is time we all talk to each other, work together, and stand up for anyone being bullied or attacked by ugly rhetoric. We must pick leaders who honor the Golden Rule. Together we can make our communities places where all are honored and welcome. These are principles I believe in and practice. 

**Jeff Backer** _MN House of Representatives, Republican Incumbent_

[The most important responsibility I’d have in my role as a State House Representative would be] to be the strong and experienced voice to protect Greater Minnesota’s rural values and economies. Greater Minnesota needs representation at the Capitol. The Metro idea that one-size-fits-all does not work. As a voice for rural Minnesota, metro representatives ask me personally if certain bills will have an adverse effect on my district. [As a state representative, I want to] increase competition in the healthcare marketplace to make it more affordable, [and improve] public safety by defending law enforcement. [I also want to implement] a 5 % budget cut across the board to take care of the $5 billion deficit, instead of raising new taxes on struggling citizens. The state should economize like private citizens have to. [I am opposed to] the current proposal of having the rural areas pay extra taxes to help pay for rebuilding the damaged Minneapolis/St. Paul caused by “peaceful protesting” (rioting, looting, shootings, and burning). [I am also opposed to] the continuation of the peacetime emergency powers of the governor allowing the lockdown of the rural areas just like downtown Minneapolis. The one-size-fits-all peacetime emergency powers has been a disaster for the rural areas. Our COVID numbers have always been low. We should not be treated the same as the more infected metro areas. [I also am opposed to] defunding the police [and] a total state takeover of the healthcare system. I will support legislation to keep locker rooms biologically specific and prevent boys along with men from competing against girls and women in sports. My opponent does not have the hands-on business experience to understand how the taxes in Minnesota influence our economy. He talks about how we all need to get along but offers no solid plans for difficult situations. Compromise means both sides get something and give something. However, essentials and convictions cannot be compromised. I do not follow lockstep to the party if it is harmful to my district. The Democratic party has a history of making their followers follow the agenda. It’s not very open to new ideas and free thought, which is why you’ll notice that my opponent keeps parroting the party lines without coming up with original ideas. I came to office because I had new ideas and plans for how to change things. I doubt my opponent has that freedom. My twenty-five years of EMT training prepared me how to help people in time of need. It has taught me to think clearly and carefully in the midst of hard situations. 

**Tom Westrom** _MN Senate, Republican Incumbent_

[I think the most important responsibility I’d have would be] being fair-minded and listening to constituent concerns and problems and trying to help find good solutions for those issues with a limited scope of government. Also, being an ardent voice for our rural values and rural communities to be sure the rural perspective is included in state policies and how state budgets are set. We want to make sure the legislature is re-engaged with making decisions and any changes in laws, and not to continue on the six month path we’re on now with the Governor continuing his “Emergency Powers” indefinitely, which violates our Constitution as well as it has been harmful to many families, senior citizens, small businesses, farmers and others. We need to find ways to work together, Democrats and Republicans, because most issues are too big for just one party to solve. We need to use common sense to balance the states budget deficit, which was caused from Covid 19, to help make sure our educational facilities (colleges and schools, etc.) and other essential areas funded by the state, like transportation, nursing homes, etc., are held as financially whole as we can. We also need to protect the family pocketbook from the burden of higher taxes. We also need to continue and make sure our rural communities and farmers aren’t burdened by excessive regulations and are treated fairly in the budget process—LGA, county aid, per pupil education funding, etc. [I am opposed to] one-party and one-person Emergency Powers that can go on indefinitely—as we’re experiencing now six months after they were initially called by the Governor, thereby excluding the Legislative branch from passing or changing laws after input from their constituents. This is not how our forefathers intended to operate state governments. I’m opposed to voter fraud and efforts to weaken the integrity and reliability of our elections. I’m opposed to defunding the police and first responders, because being safe in your homes and communities is a basic and primary purpose of the government to keep everyone safe-because you never know you may need to call for your own safety. I grew up on a dairy farm and have resided in West Central rural Minnesota my whole life. These rural values have a great impact on my perspective and why I’ll fight ardently for the traditional rural values to protect the way of life so many of us have been fortunate enough to experience and enjoy because of the great sacrifices our parents and grandparents made. My wife and I have three children in our Minnesota schools now and I have similar backgrounds and share many of the same experiences and issues with the average voters in District 12. I use those experiences and my western Minnesota roots to effectively advocate and represent our area in St. Paul! Presently, I have the honor to serve as the Committee Chair of the Senate Agriculture and Rural Development Finance Committee, and this allows me to be a strong voice for our rural issues, such as agriculture, rural broadband, etc. 

**Jill Abahsain** _MN Senate, Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party_

I am a dedicated rural Minnesota transplant from south Minneapolis. My parents are from Lyon county, and I am the granddaughter of a charismatic Lutheran minister and one-time mayor of Spicer MN. After I graduated from the U of M with a BA in Comparative Religion, where I met my future husband, and together, we followed an academic life into the Middle East. I was widowed in 2007, but continued to work, as an editor and columnist for a major English language Egyptian newspaper. This gave me a front row seat to events propelled by people with no voice in their own affairs and led to the Egyptian Revolution of 2010-11. I returned to my home, which is now in Sauk Centre, MN. I was able to apply the experience I had in teaching English to adults. I began working for Alexandria Adult Basic Education teaching from satellite offices in Sauk Centre, Melrose as well as alternative classrooms in churches, dairy farms and poultry factories. I helped many people in my community learn the English, gain their citizenship, earn their GED, CDL and prepare for Certified Nursing courses. Retiring from teaching in 2016, I was hired as Director of Sauk Centre History Museum and Research Center. This position gave me an opportunity to become deeply steeped in local history and the perennial issues of rural small-town central Minnesota. In small town Minnesota, politics is never far from the surface and we cannot allow it to lay fallow. My experience has given me insight into what we need in west central Minnesota. I am running as the DFL candidate for Senate District 12. I am going to leave you with one question–Are you better off now than you were four years ago? If not, get involved, voice your views. We need Democracy now more than ever! Thank you for taking time to listen to what I have to say. Please contact me with your questions, concerns and opinions. I am here to help. We are in this together, and together we can make a difference.

**Kim Gullickson**, _Morris City Council Incumbent_

Hello–my name is Kim Gullickson and I am running for a second term on the Morris City Council. I graduated from UMM and have continued to live, work and raise my family (mom to 5) in Morris. I believe the most important responsibility of a council member is to represent the people of the community, of which UMM is a significant part. The council needs to be fiscally responsible, balancing the public’s concerns, with the operations of the city, in order to make sure the taxpayers’ dollars are spent prudently all the while benefiting the community as a whole. This means listening to the citizens and working together to create a community for
people to live, work and call home. As with most things I participate in, I want to enhance what is already present in Morris. We really do have some wonderful amenities for a small rural town–some of which are: beautiful city parks; a variety of locally owned businesses, shops and restaurants; top notch schools including a University; partnership with the Climate Smart Municipalities; state of the art sports complexes; museum, art, music and theatre venues; and a diversity of people, all which make for a very balanced community and a setting for continued growth. I always strive for improvement in myself; therefore, I seek the same improvement in our community. If I am opposed to anything it is maintaining the status quo. There is always room for change and improvement. Something that distinguishes me from the other candidates–I am female. In closing, the Morris City Council is only as good as the community of folks who they represent. There are five members on the Council who are challenged with making the final decisions. Some are popular decisions and others, not so popular. As a council member, we need to hear from the people in Morris regarding their concerns and ideas. That is what I will do: listen and then help to determine a resolution based on what is fiscally prudent and makes the most sense for our community. 

**Kevin Wohlers**, _Morris City Council Incumbent_

As an elected official and representatives for the community, we have a fiscal responsibility to the taxpayers to ensure our tax dollars are spent wisely. That I believe is our most important responsibility. We are put in this position to make decisions for the betterment of the community at large. This will be my third term on the council if re-elected. I believe our most pressing issue is our walking/biking networks in Morris. I feel many of our sidewalks are not safe for walking traffic. I would like to see designated bike routes in Morris to allow safe travel to downtown. I am concerned about the safety of the students, faculty and the general public who choose to ride or walk to school and work. I oppose any and all forms of discrimination in our community. We recently had some BLM signs vandalized in our town. That is not who we are as a community. My wife and I raised our children in this community. As lifelong residents of Morris we don’t condone discrimination in any form. My combination of work experience, education and previous 8 years on the council set me apart [from other candidates]. My years on the council has taught me a great deal about how city government operates. It takes a while to learn where the money comes from and where it goes. My wife Sherry and I owned and operated Taco Johns of Morris for five and a half years. As a former business owner I understand the needs of our local retail community. I am a graduate of the University of Minnesota Morris. I understand the value of a quality education and will do my best to continue my support to that end. I am a veteran of the Minnesota Army National Guard with over 22 years of service. I learned a great deal about how to lead and more importantly how to follow throughout my career. 

**Tom Brisbois-Haubrich**, _Morris City Council_

My name is Tom Brisbois-Haubrich. I am a Senior student at UMM studying History and Political Science. Since 2018, I have been wanting to run for political office in Morris, MN, and I am one of the four candidates running for City Council in 2020. I believe in Wellstonian grassroots democracy, and that the excesses we allow from our local representatives we'll soon see from our national ones. More importantly, I think that the students should have a voice within Morris politics, and I'm hopeful you feel the same way. My primary reason behind running lies mainly with the fact that our current incumbents did nothing to stop Blaine Hill's and Amanda Barnes's attempt to get rid of the former Student Center polling site. This polling site helped UMM boast the highest voter turnout rates in the University system, not to mention helped shepard countless first-time voters into the democratic process. As it is now, City Council acts solely as a rubber stamp for the policies of Blaine Hill, a City Manager who cannot be voted out of office, and otherwise cannot be countered unless someone in the municipal legislature provides that opposition. But the problems inherent in Blaine Hill's bureaucratic leadership aren't just University problems, they affect the city as a whole. The stagnant status quo is upheld even as it slowly strangles our growth. Municipal dialogue is not possible, and even though comments are heard, the opinion of the City Manager takes precedence over all, and City Council refuses to use independent judgement when making decisions. Grassroots democracy is nonexistent, and competition is null, with the 2018 City Council election being completely unopposed for the incumbents. We need to begin taking new action and revive Morris's civic, cultural, and economic spheres. This can all be advocated for if I'm elected, but to actually institute change, and revitalize the growth of Morris, both current incumbents need to be unseated. To do this, not only I need to get elected, but also Wes Flinn, Council-hopeful and Music Professor on Campus. He sees the same underlying issues that I do, and would advocate for fundamental change as well. Only if two new Council members are elected can effective opposition be developed. 2020 is set to be one of the most important election years of our lives, but when most focus on the National scene, they miss the bigger battles going on in their own backyards. This is a chance to begin active engagement in Morris politics, and to influence actual change in the course of our city's future. That's why I'm asking you to vote for Thomas Brisbois-Haubrich
as your 2020 Morris City Councillor.

**Wes Flinn**, _Morris City Council_

My wife and I moved here in 2012 for a teaching position at UMM. I am a music theorist, composer, and trombonist/euphoniumist. I served on the Morris Library Board 2016-2019, and on the Viking Library System board 2017-2019 (including a term as Treasurer). We are grateful for the opportunities given us here in Morris, and I want to give back. We have a general crisis of confidence in so many areas – governance, infrastructure, etc. The muscles of community involvement and self-government are atrophied. Power has been concentrated in the hands of very few people. The most important thing I could do as a member of Morris City Council is identify problems and provide paths for citizens to take part in the process of solving them, rather than relying on unelected administrators or old ways of thinking. I have identified three areas where we could do better:

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT: To help amplify citizen voices, I will hold open office hours in every neighborhood and speak to any civic group, as well as routinely speak to local media. I will better advertise the process for participation on municipal boards and commissions. I will always let people speak–and I will work to make sure that includes all voices in Morris, including student voices.

COMMUNITY ENHANCEMENT: I will push for an increase in economic development funds and for the creation/development of a small business incubator, as well as a thorough review of city legal and regulatory codes. I will also work toward the creation of a community solar array to accompany our other sustainability and energy initiatives. We’re a college town–let’s act like one!

COMMUNITY ENLARGEMENT: Our elected officials should make keeping infrastructure in working order a high priority. This means growing our tax base–not just new jobs, but new citizens. I will implement policies that encourage people to move here, advertise the high quality of life available, and work with employers and the University to make these newcomers–including immigrants and refugees–feel welcome. And for those who have stayed, we need affordable housing designed for independent seniors and for families. I will investigate the possibility of ground subleases and other ways of lowering housing costs. I will work with anyone who truly wishes to make this city we love better. I will oppose ideas that perpetuate the status quo. Playing in and directing musical ensembles has taught me that we can combine a variety of parts and voices into a whole that is so much greater than the sum of those parts. Together we can accomplish what none of us could do alone. I humbly ask for your vote on or before November 3.

**Anita Stoker** _Morris Area School Board_

My name is Anita Stoker and I am running for the two-year term on the Morris Area School Board. I was born and raised in Morris. After graduating from Morris Area High School, I attended the University of Minnesota Morris for just over two years before transferring to Minnesota State University Moorhead where I graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Elementary Education and a concentration in mathematics. I have three adult children and seven grandchildren, three of whom attend Morris Area Elementary. For the past 10+ years I have taught Middle School at a small multi-cultural Lutheran school in the Los Angeles area. Although I retired from teaching and moved back to Morris last December, this past August I was asked to teach long distance via Zoom at Good Shepherd Lutheran School in Los Angeles where I have taught in person for the past few years. As a Morris Area School Board member, I believe the most important role I would have is to work with other school board members to help advise the administration and assist in setting policies and budgets that affect the area schools. I have had experience with doing both; having served on several advisory boards, church council, a pastoral call committee, and I have been responsible for creating and managing church budgets. While on the school board, I would like to improve communication between the school district and community as well as increase community involvement with the schools. This includes developing more opportunities to work with the UMM community. I am strongly opposed to discrimination or bullying of any kind. I passionately believe that our strength lies in diversity and acceptance of each other as people–regardless of race, religion, gender identity, economics, academic abilities, immigration status, or politics. We need to work together as a community. We cannot afford to push anyone out or make anyone feel unwanted. As to what distinguishes me from the other candidates…. I honestly do not know. I do know that I bring a wide and varied background to the race. I have lived in small towns and in one of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States. I have taught students with limited English, those with special needs and those whose test scores ranked them as genius–oftentimes all in the same class. As part of my job, I assisted with administrative tasks, mentored new teachers, and did everything I could to help students succeed. My passion is guiding others and helping them discover their gifts and talents through education. My name is Anita Stoker and I would appreciate your vote on November 3. Thank you.

**Renee Konz** _Morris Area School Board, Incumbent_

I was born and raised in Morris and had the pleasure of receiving a great education at Morris Area Public Schools. After graduating from Morris Area High School, I attended college at St. Cloud State University and graduated with majors in Finance and Economics. The first three years out of college, I worked as a risk analyst for Federated Insurance. The last 13 years I have been the financial controller with Riverview LLP. My husband, Matt, and I have been married 16 years. Our three children, Makenzie (13), Samantha (12), and Evan (9) all attend Morris Area Public Schools. We are all very involved in our community and in our school. I care deeply about the success of our school and volunteer where I can. I have been involved in coaching elementary softball, chaperoning countless school trips, reading in the classroom, and stepping in to help where needed. In 2018, I finished my six-year term limit on the Morris Area School Foundation Board. It was a great opportunity to work with the school’s administrators and teachers to support the mission of the school. During this time, we were able to raise and distribute over $500,000 to the school to support our amazing teachers. I currently serve on the Morris Area School Board. I was voted onto the board in August 2020 when this seat was vacated. I would love the opportunity to stay on and complete this term. On the school board, I am committed to the vision of our school. I have seen firsthand how passionate and dedicated our teachers and administrators are to provide the best education for our kids. I will work with our teachers and administrators to provide a safe and positive environment for our students so that all students are prepared for a successful tomorrow. I believe it takes a collaborative relationship between the board, the community, the educators, and all stakeholders to be effective in this role. I am always willing to listen as it takes us all to make our school the best it can be. It is also critical that we set our school up for a successful, sustainable, future. To accomplish this, we need to be good stewards of the resources with which we have been entrusted. I have a strong background in finance which will be very beneficial in helping our school maintain high standards even during budget challenges and changes. As a parent, alumni, coach, and vested community member, whose desire it is to see every child reach their potential, I am ready to work together with others at our school to keep us moving forward. I look forward to serving our school district. Thank you for your support.