---
title: 'A change in leadership: on the search for the next University President'
date: 10/26/2018
---

**Written by Trey Goodsell, Staff Writer** _originally published in Issue 4, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, October 28, 2018_

On July 13, President Kaler of the University of Minnesota system announced he was resigning one year ahead of the end of his term, originally ending July 1, 2020. His stepping down brings with it a host of questions and considerations for what the system needs moving forward and how to respond to the perceived shortcomings of Kaler’s tenure. 

President Kaler had made his intentions known about resigning early, and the University’s Board of Regents moved quickly to convene a search committee for the next President, perhaps too quickly.  Members of the committee include University Regents, faculty, and administration from the Twin Cities, Morris, and Duluth campuses, private individuals who have served the University system on various boards, and two students, both from the Twin Cities. 
The timeline they had to set-up the committee has benefited the Twin Cities campus, which has a disproportionate amount of influence, even relative to its share of the student population. The exclusion of the other campuses is a recurrent theme of university governance, with students from Morris inveighing against this during the listening session as well. 
The criteria for selecting a new president also precludes quite a few people who would otherwise make fine administrators. To read them off is to expect the impossible of the candidates and, considering the record of our outgoing president, seemingly unfair. Any candidate would be expected to be a great collaborator, inspiring leader, system thinker, visionary, innovator, and ambassador to the myriad of classes of people they are expected to deal with in their position. 
There is no denying the increasing complexity of bureaucracy, which can be seen at all levels of governance. We expect more from our institutions, and in turn, we hope to go out in the world representing the best of what they can offer. The leaders are expected to be more exceptional than others, but they cannot be all of these things all of the time. We are setting up someone to fail, and fail harshly, by not examining our standards for leadership. 
Perhaps the most important of the criteria is the need to shape budgets for long-term fiscal sustainability. It is no secret that state governments have become increasingly hostile toward their higher education systems. Reading through the biographies of past university presidents, keeping the university open despite decreased state funding has been a recurrent problem, with only a prosperous period in the late 60s to early 70s as an exception. 
The ongoing fundraising campaign, Driven, is evidence of the decreased funding. President Kaler will assume the position of president emeritus specifically to continue his position with the campaign after June 30 next year. But the more successful he is at it, the harder it could become to gain public funding. Raising large sums of private funds will only embolden the legislature to further defund the system, requiring any future President to devote more time and resources to courting private funds. This time they are unlikely to have, considering Kaler remarked that being president was already a seven day a week job, evenings and nights included. As students, we need our president for many jobs, and the outside problem of system funding will likely come ahead of every other. 
So while the Committee is surely listening to the many concerns and grievances of ours, we can see the many challenges of realizing these concerns in a president we will only have a limited say in hiring. 

In Morris, four listening sessions were held, one for students, one for faculty, one for staff, and one for alumni and the community at-large. Attending the listening session in Morris specifically were the Regents Abdul Omari, Chair of the committee; Laura Bloomberg, Vice-Chair of the Committee; Alberto Pimentel, of Storbeck/Pimentel and Associates; Rajiv Vaidyanathan, professor of business and economics at the Duluth campus; Lynne Williams, Director of Marketing and Public Relations of the Duluth campus; Steve Sviggum, Regent representing the Second Congressional District; Kevin Kopischke, retired President of the Alexandria Technical and Community College; and our own Peh Ng, Head of the Division of Science and Math. The committee’s goal was to make themselves available to the community, find what the biggest impact that they could have in their position, and find what would entice someone to apply for the presidency.
The challenges we are facing, are at face value, distinct and separate. But underlying them is the same issue: neglect from the leadership out of the Twin Cities. Students regularly broached issues that could be alleviated with initiative from leadership, yet largely has not. Cost of attending, tuition, faculty support, student retention, and competition from the Twin Cities are recurring features of dialogue between Morris students and leaders within the university system and the legislature. 
The chair asked if there were opportunities for the new president in serving Morris. Students were fast to list their pre-eminent feature of the Morris campus: sustainability initiatives, partnerships with rural communities, the faculty, and the breadth of the curriculum. These are quintessentially Morris opportunities, currently present and unrealized. The Vice-Chair asked how sustainability programming is tied into the curriculum, and I rose to answer that they are rather separate. There are plenty of programs that address student waste, the energy impact of our campus, some research done with campus facilities, and the ways students have led these. But classes do not take advantage of these programs. 
Lastly, the Chair asked the audience what personal qualities they would like to see in a president, which I believe encapsulate a sort of Morris doctrine. Prioritize a background in education, avoiding people who have only worked in the private sector; belief in the mission statement of Morris; promotion of our cultural identity, including sustainability, indigenous communities, and the liberal arts; someone young with room to grow; and accommodate all people who wish to join our school. 
While accounting for the fact these were the first ever listening sessions conducted for a University President, the shortcomings should be noted. The committee has more power to travel to each campus, yet they gave themselves a very limited schedule. An article in The Stevens County Times noted that few were able to attend the public and alumni session held in the afternoon, and that the schedule was not publicized far enough in advance for people to plan for it. Beyond the timing, the matter of compromise has been avoided by audiences and the committee. We should expect a fair amount of tension between the campuses, and within them between students, faculty, and staff. The committee however is not subject to open meetings, and while there are processes for learning about their deliberations, they are not likely to be available until after they have already made their decision on finalists for the Board of Regents’s consideration. 
As a student body, we need to keep in mind these constraints, and where they originate, if we hope to address and legitimize the problems and solutions of our university governance. 

