---
title: 'Banned Books Reading in Briggs'
date: 09/28/2018
---

**By Melissa Voss, News Editor** _originally published in Issue 2, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, September 28, 2018_

In honor of the American Library Associa- ing similar topics are not challenged or reported. Re- tion’s (ALA) Banned Books Week from September 23 to September 28, Briggs library, in collaboration with the English club and honor’s society, Sigma Tau Delta, hosted the yearly banned books reading on Monday, September 24 in the McGinnis Room. Here, several volunteers read aloud excerpts from books that have been challenged (an attempt to remove or restrict materials, based upon the objections of a person or group) or banned (the removal of those materials) within schools and public libraries. The reading was followed by an informal discussion about banned books and censored resources. 

According to the ALA website, although Banned Books Week is focused heavily on the censorship of books, other materials are targeted as being challenged or banned: databases, DVDs, magazines, video games, and even displays. Books can be challenged for a wide variety of reasons, but many of the common accusations include inappropriate materials for certain age groups, sexual appeal, language, LGBT, race, stereotypes, and political. In 2017, over 416 books were banned or challenged in the United States. Al- though small, the number of banned books could be over 10,000 cases a year, but over 82% of books covering ismilar topics are not challenged or reported.  Reports can come from several groups of people, with 42% of challenges being brought up by civil patrons, of which 32% are parents, as well as 13% being board members and 6% being librarians and teachers.

The top three most challenged books of 2017 included _Thirteen Reasons Why_ by Jay Asher - due to the popularity of its adapted Netflix series, the 2007 book resurfaced as a mainstream novel and was placed under challenge since the novel discussed suicide; The _Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian_ by Sherman Alexie has been frequently challenged over the past decade due to its discussion of poverty, alcoholism and suicide; and _Drama_ written and illustrated by Raina Telgemier has been under attack due to its acknowledgement of LGBT issues and its “confusing” nature. Journalists, teachers, students, librarians, and the general public who often partake in banned books week share the similar goal of decreasing book cen- sorship whiling increasing books that reinforce “unpopular” or “unorthodox” opinions.  According to ALA, the purpose of Banned Books Week is not only to bring awareness to and celebrate the freedom to read, but to promote the freedom of choice in literature and knowledge within our schools and libraries.