---
title: 'Campus Prepares for Upcoming Election'
date: '23-10-2020 13:57'
---

With election day rapidly rapidly approaching the University of Minnesota’s students and faculty have participated in various in-person and digital events over the course of the past few weeks.

The Office of Residential Life has been encouraging vote registration by awarding $10 gift cards for Higbies and the Bookstore to whichever floor can boast the highest registration rate among its residents. Spooner Top was awarded the prize on Tuesday.

The Office of Equity, Diversity, and Intellectual Programs is currently sponsoring the “2020 Voter Engagement Series,” a series of events and activities held by the Office or in collaboration with other organizations. A temporary exhibit featuring a diverse selection of activists has been erected in the Multi-Ethnic Resource Center Lounge and will be available for viewing in-person and online through October 31. A webinar examining the Latino vote was hosted September 22, featuring the Pew Research Center’s Mark Hugo Lopez and Professor Micheal Minta from the Twin Cities’s College of Liberal Arts and the Office facilitated another dialogue discussing difficult political conversations on October 1, followed by a showing of the film Good Trouble focuses on the works of Representative John Lewis was held on October 20.If you’re still interested in participating in the series, a conversation will be held over Zoom the day after election day to discuss the results of this year’s election.

On October 7th the University of Minnesota Alumni Association held a webinar moderated by WCCO’s Roshini Rajkumar and featured Morris Political Science Professor Tim Lindberg and Minnesota Secretary of State Steve Simon. The webinar focused on the importance of voting and questions surrounding voting in this year’s election.

Steve Simon provided attendees with important information regarding the upcoming election. At the time of the webinar 1.2 million Minnesotans had requested absentee ballots, in the last presidential election the total amount requested was only a couple hundred thousand. It is legal to vote both in person and by mail if an absentee has been requested or mailed, the in-person ballot would overwrite the absentee ballot when it is received. Attire that clearly endorses a particular candidate on the ballot is not allowed at polling places, but attire with a political connotation is. Although counting ballots after election day will be very different compared to previous elections, that does not mean it is illegitimate. “This is not the result of somebody screwing up or failing to plan, to the contrary this is the plan. We’re just gonna have to do what we’ve done for ... the last seven months which is be patient.”

“Asking the Big Questions” is typically a much more regular discussion series on campus, but this year Morris’s Political Science Division partnered with Briggs Library to host the series’ only event of the semester. The panel consisted of political science professors Rogers Rose and Tim Lindberg. Most of the discussion centered around the bizarre circumstances surrounding this year’s election. Due to circumstances relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, final election results will most likely take days or weeks to arrive.

During this period the results in many states will appear to rapidly fluctuate and it is likely that we will see a virulent spread of misinformation. The panelists encouraged attendees to be patient when awaiting results and to be skeptical of any major candidate who declares victory immediately after election night. Since the 2016 election pollsters have adopted new methodology to construct more accurate polls. Based on the available information projects show Biden winning the presidency by a fairly safe margin, but the panelists suggested Congress is more unpredictable. Democrats will almost certainly retain control of the House of Representatives while the Senate will be heavily contested. As of writing Republicans currently have a slight edge in most models, but it is possible for Democrats to obtain a slim majority and have Vice President Kamala Harris cast a tie-breaking vote.

After both these events I spoke to Professor Lindberg regarding some concerns people have expressed about the upcoming election. “I think that the major thing is to think about if we’re thinking about the rhetoric. The mudslinging that they’re doing, misleading information, voter intimidation, all of those tactics have been used before in American history, arguably at worse levels and they currently are. There was the 1800 election between Jefferson and Adams where people were calling each other ... derogatory terms and questioning [their] loyalty to the country and all these other things. It wasn’t that long ago that the problems were so much worse than they are now.” Lindberg noted that even though many aspects of the 2020 election may seem bleak, circumstances have been worse in recent history. “[I think many of our concerns are legitimate, but] it’s partially a reflection of that we all expect that we can [have fair elections], that we all expect that voting is a right, and that’s a pretty modern expectation.

Although the deadline for early registration has now passed, absentee ballots can still be requested but must be postmarked by election day. Those who have not already registered still have the option of registering in-person at the polls on November 3rd provided they either have one of the valid documents listed on the Minnesota Secretary of State’s website or an eligible person to vouch for them.

_Image on top courtesy of usembassy.gov_