---
title: 'On Your Headphones: WHEN WE ALL FALL ASLEEP, WHERE DO WE GO?'
---

It took her a couple of years, but finally. Finally, it came. Billie Eilish’s debut album, WHEN WE ALL FALL ASLEEP, WHERE DO WE GO?, dropped on Friday, March 29. From the beginning of her career, Billie has engrossed her fans in what can only be described as a combination of cinematic pop music that has an occasional ballad or slow song incorporated into her EPs. The way I see it, Billie Eilish is a cross between a waking nightmare and your favorite dream, voicing the harshest truths of addiction, like in “xanny,” with soft notes of affection in songs such as, “i love you.” The album also includes songs like “8,” which sounds out-of-place, and “wish you were gay,” which has become highly controversial in the last few months. Billie clearly does not shy away from issues that impact people of all ages, across the gender spectrum, no matter how you run your life (or your playlist). If you want to dive into the mind of a mad genius, I suggest giving the album a few listens, because if you only listen to it once, you will be left confused to no end. It was a kaleidoscopic experience, listening to the album and eventually, writing this album review, but I can happily say that I left this experience thoroughly satisfied. I laughed, I cried, and I questioned my life multiple times. Take one listen, be driven mad, but take five listens, and expand the way you analyze music. Great job, Billie Eilish. I look forward to your next album.

A+
