---
title: 'Play in a Day: Mystery Edition'
media_order: lakedale.jpg
date: '16-11-2018 20:06'
---

**Written by Geordi Jones, Feature Editor.** _Originally published in Issue 6, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, November 16, 2018._

This past Saturday, November 10, the Meiningens Student Theatre Organization produced their Play in a Day festival for this semester. The Play in a Day festival is a staple of Meiningens’ events, with multiple festivals happening each year. Students were given the opportunity to sign up as an actor, director, or playwright. This time around, the theme was “Mystery Edition,” which meant that each of the playwrights were asked to create a play related to that theme. The featured playwrights on Saturday were Alyssa Olsen, Chelsea Young, and Rachael Knafla. 

Olsen’s play, entitled_ Lakedale_, was a parody of CW’s series Riverdale, inspired by Archie Comics. _Lakedale_ was a high school murder mystery, in which students Channing, Liam, Kace, and Bennett were left in the wake of the murder of their high school principal, and dealt with their own fear, grief, and guilt in their unique ways. Starring in _Lakedale_ were Brianna Williams, Aaron Otten, Caroline Vodacek, and Bryan Doty.

Young’s play was _Unseen Truth_, an epic myth of her own creation filled with intrigue, deceit, and false identities. _Unseen Truth_ followed a sacred warrior Lixlin as he struggled to keep a mysterious artifact from the goddess Phikneas to prevent world-shattering events. Along his travels, he crosses paths with the cunning bandit Averill, the entrancing nymph Telerose, and the insightful forest spirit Zhishe. _Unseen Truth_ featured students Spencer Hammersten, Hannah Retzer, Brandon King, Bailey Hintz, and Kai Zang. 

Knafla’s play, _A Little Birdie Told Me_, by contrast, was a far less world-shifting mystery, and focused on the complex web of interpersonal relationships between David, Carol, Robin, and Susan. The mystery stemmed from David trying to piece together who Carol was as a person and what exactly the nature of her relationship with Robin was. Starring in _A Little Birdie Told Me_ were Elijah Bass, Dana Voss, Geordi Jones, and Angelica Cullen. 

Here is a closer look at the experiences of a few different people involved in Play in a Day.

Alyssa Olsen, playwright of _A Little Birdie Told Me_: “This was my first time doing Play in a Day, but also the first time I've written a play. The process took me about six and a half hours to write. I started at 9:30 p.m. and wrote until about 4 a.m., then I had a peer look it over to give me feedback. Once I had gotten the feedback, I made changes, so ultimately the process entirely was seven and half hours when I officially stopped writing and making edits, which was at 5 a.m.

I've seen Play in a Day a few times and it amazes me how well these plays turn out in such a short period of time. Being on the writing process, however, is a completely different story. I was very tired, but I think by the time I was able to see the actual stage production of it, it was all worth the tiredness and the hard work to pump out a 20 minute play in just a matter of hours.

I think the most rewarding thing about doing Play in a Day, as a playwright, would have to be seeing the characters come alive. I'm very glad that the funny bits that I was hoping the audience would find funny worked well because the audience did find them funny, which felt really good. Also, with my play, I added an original song into one of the scenes. That's the first time that many people have heard lyrics that I've written, so I think that was my ultimate favorite part. Mostly because I had just included the lyrics in the script, I left it open ended for the actors and director to figure out how the music would sound and the vocal part. I think it worked really well and sounded beautiful.
I would definitely consider writing for [Play in a Day] again, if I get the chance.”

Natalie Wallraff, director of _A Little Birdie Told Me_: Unlike the writers, Natalie’s day as a director started at 7:00 a.m. on Saturday morning. Minus a few breaks for lunch and dinner, Natalie worked on _A Little Birdie Told Me_ for a total of 15 hours. Though her job as a director was over once the show started at 9 p.m., she spent the performance of _A Little Birdie Told Me_ calling the cues for the lights and sound. When asked about how it felt for her show to go up in less than 24 hours, she said “I felt like a proud mom. I didn’t know most of my actors, but it was very nice to build friendships with them. Working so intensely on a production like this really helped us to form a strong bond… [Directing] was a really great experience, but it reaffirmed that I will most likely go to graduate school for acting. I now appreciate all the things directors have to do. I wasn’t worried [about the show], because I know all of exec, so I knew we were in very capable hands.”

Geordi Jones, “Robin” in _A Little Birdie Told Me_: It’d be tough to write a spotlight on a theatre event without inputting my own experience. I’m no stranger to theatre, since I’ve been doing it from a very young age, and I’ve been a theatre arts student here at UMM since 2016. Somehow, though, I had never done Play in a Day. After much persuading from my roommate, I finally decided to bite the bullet and sign up. Play in a Day is an entirely different beast from regular theatre. It requires some grit and some rigor, but it is definitely an invigorating experience. Rehearsing from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. is very intense, but it was also rewarded almost immediately by getting an audience right away. One of the particularly unique things was seeing how my list of special props was directly incorporated into the script. _A Little Birdie_ wouldn’t have had a Guitar Hero scene if I hadn’t had the controller in my apartment, and I enjoyed having that level of direct input. I’d definitely recommend Play in a Day to anybody looking for more theatre, and particularly those who want a low-commitment production. It only takes one day!