---
title: '2018 Fall Dance Ensemble: Celebrate!'
---

**By Janie Dam, A&E Editor** _originally published in Issue 7, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, December 7, 2018_

Dance Ensemble kicked off this semester’s show with the theme _Celebrate_, in honor of its 25th anniversary on Friday, November 16 at 7:00 p.m. in Edson Auditorium. Since reaching this milestone, the show ensured that it would not disappoint audience members. The weekend was filled with exhilarating energy from students and family, as well as Dance Ensemble alumni who had returned to join the stage. Over 100 dancers participated in the production and they dedicated a respectable amount of effort into putting on one of the biggest performances the campus holds every semester. This tradition has continuously secured the high expectations of both dancers and choreographers in a variety of dance numbers, with 20 songs being featured along with the production reprise at its closing. 

While Dance Ensemble is a renowned event that seems to always acquire students’ attention, this does not intimidate people from joining, even those who have never had prior dancing or performing experiences. Everybody comes in with an attitude that wants to entertain and have fun, but also puts exertion into what they want to present. Jubair Hassan, a senior who has participated in Dance Ensemble in years past, reflects on his preparation for this semester’s production where he would spend 3 to 4 hours per week practicing for three months until the show dates. Hassan was in three dance numbers with one being a swing dance, choreographed by Rachel Envangelisto and Justice Jensvold, that entailed many lifts, spins, and flips. He says, “Learning the choreography was hard, given I never did swing dance before. I went to the swing dance club once and I was very bad at it. The fact that our choreographers were very well organized and knew what they wanted to do had helped a lot. My partner was amazing. The lifts were a little challenging but she trusted me enough to get it done. We even messed up on the dress rehearsal! But the performance went as smooth as possible.” When asked about his first time joining Dance Ensemble, Hassan recalls being afraid initially but just by watching his friends participate, he was inspired after seeing how much joy they experienced. “[Dance Ensemble] is a thing that helps me take the stress away from my regular college pressure and it's very therapeutic for me.”

Cookie Vang, a freshman who you can find breakdancing at any event that calls for it, joined the production to demonstrate his swift floorwork on stage. In his first-time experience with Dance Ensemble, Vang says, “I like that even if you didn't have much dancing experience, you audition so that you’re placed with other relatable people and learn to put something together.” With dancing already being one of his hobbies, Vang continues, “I previously danced at my high school's homecoming and at the end-of-the-year talent show, which I feel helped me perform well during this show. Overall, being in Dance Ensemble was the highlight of my year and I would wholeheartedly encourage other people to join. It's definitely nerve-wracking at first but the people are nice and it's exciting when the dance comes all together.”

Needless to point out, Dance Ensemble has nothing but positive outlooks and always hopes to have new members take part in their shows. Kate Livermore, a sophomore this year, decided to join because many of her friends were in it and she wanted to get involved, as well as to meet new people. “This was my first semester participating so I didn’t know what to expect,” she says. “I was placed in a dance where I didn’t know any of the other people in that number, which was disappointing at first but it turned out to be really fun. My favorite part by far was when the performance was coming close to date because it was cool to be able to support all the other dancers and see all the hard work come together in the end!”

While each dance number has its own message that is formed by its choreographers and delivered by its dancers, those who are a part of Anonymous Dance Co. (ADC) this year had done exceptionally well in this element. Kriss Baye, co-choreographer for a number entirely based on Drake’s music, explained the direction that he and Jamie Polahn leaned towards when working with the other dancers. “We wanted to stick to what we do best, that being hip-hop and African dance styles,” Baye says. “Both Jamie and I come from an African background that has a culture heavily tied to rhythm and music. The start of the dance is “In My Feelings,” which is very popular and we wanted to show everyone the challenges that went along with it. We transitioned into “Trophies” which, having a message about winning, the choreography delves into a message about community and violence in and around the black population. As you saw in our dance, I get pushed to the ground and fall slowly. After that, we move into “Truffle Butter,” where we introduce breakdancing that leads into “To the Max,” a song that demanded high-energy movements.” While Baye has participated in Dance Ensemble in the past, he stated that it was not in association with ADC at the time. 

Before alumni Ellis Sherman graduated in the spring earlier this year, he started the organization that explores different types of dances without having to be constrained by what you see in many Dance Ensemble choreographies. Although Sherman did not return to campus to join the stage, Baye mentions, “Ellis also has an African background which, as I said before, had heavy emphasis on dancing as a way to bring people together. A dance class isn't something that comes to mind when I think of past experiences. Dancing is just intrinsic to our culture.”

Kristin McQuerry, a freshman who also jumped into Dance Ensemble in her first semester, has been a dancer for seven years now and plans on continuing throughout college. She excitingly says, “Dance Ensemble is such a fun club to be a part of and I would highly recommend it to everyone on campus. All of the students involved did really well, and seemed to have fun when they were on stage. It was definitely a different atmosphere than what I’m use to for dance. Everybody was so supportive of each other, and I can’t wait to do it again next semester.”

With all the affirmative remarks about Dance Ensemble behind-the-scenes, it’s worthy to note that the campus looks forward to seeing new faces doing new dances in the show to come in the Spring. This celebration has been a success and proceeds from the shows will benefit the John Vo Scholarship that will be given to a selected senior who is double majoring with one major being fine arts. Thank you to those who contributed and thank you to the Dance Ensemble board for continuously dedicating time and effort in these shows to bring together students, friends, and families in celebration of dance!
