---
title: 'Goodwin sculpture aims to tie past, present, and future'
date: 09/28/2018
---

**By Melissa Voss, News Editor** _originally published in Issue 2, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, September 28, 2018_

The University of Minnesota Morris held a dedication ceremony on Saturday, September 22 at 10 a.m. for the new sculpture that has been in the works for the past several months. The Goodwin sculpture, Nokoomis Nibii Equay (“Grandmother Water Woman”), now stands on the south side of the student center, right outside Oyate hall and was gifted by alumni Puncky ’73 and Mary ’76 Soehren Heppner and sculpted by Duane Goodwin, Anishinaabe, and his two of his assistants. The sculpture is a depiction of a Native American grandmother with a young boy on her right side and a young girl at her left..

The goal of the sculpture, as told by Puncky and Mary Soehren Heppner, was to honor the past, present, and future of the Native American peoplewhose ancestors attended the boarding school that occupied the University of Minnesota Morris’ campus before the land was handed over to the state of Minnesota to establish the West Central School of Agriculture. The sculpture stands on the same ground where the boarding school’s girl’s dormitory once stood.

The sculptor, Duane Goodwin, had the opportunity to meet with students from the American Indians Representied in Pop and Academic Culture class, led by Becca Gerkin, to speak on his experience with working on the sculpture this past summer. Goodwin explained that the rock used was brought on campus as an 18,000-pound aquifer that had been mined just this past March. Aquifers are used within the earth to naturally filter water due to their porous, permeable nature. The passages that the water had gone through can be seen on the sculpture as thin, fine lines that re- semble veins. However, aquifers was not the only stone used within the sculpture. Goodwin also imbedded pipestone within the piece, carving away the negative space within the aquafer to insert the pipestone in its place. The use of pipestone, Goodwin explained, is important to the representing the Native American culture within in the art, “It is the blood that runs through our veins, the sacred stone of our people.” Lastly, Goodwin spoke of the significance of the sculpture’s centerpiece and name: the grandmother. He spoke of how women are portrayed as the givers of life, much like how water is in the natural world, and grandmothers are seen as the caretakers and parental figures to their grandchildren when their own mothers are unable to do so. That is why he chose the grandmother to be the center figure of the sculpture, because to Goodwin they are as the seen as the back- bone for the Native American culture.

To Goodwin, this was more than just a sculpting project, but a spiritual ad- venture: “It was a spiritual experience. It showed me how to deal with the deep, imbedded trauma.” This subconscious, imbedded trauma that he speaks of is something he believes every generation of Native Americans lives with due to the effects of the boarding school and how their people were treated. Goodwin combats his own personal trauma through his art in for his own personal healing as well as using his art, his sculpture to heal others: “Art helps me function as a whole person... Art is a reference of your spirit. And I believe that in everything I make.”

Goodwin’s intentions of healing trauma spread to the members of the Morris community as well. As Puncky and Mary Soehren Heppner said, the sculpture now stands on campus as a reminder of our past and a link to our future; an homage to the University’s “multi-cultural, cross-cultural” identity.

_photo at the top courtesy of UMM Flickr_