---
title: 'Donkey Kong Said "Trans Rights"'
date: 2/8/2019
---

**By Evan Douville, Staff Writer**_Originally published in Issue 8, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, February 8, 2019_

A small drop of water can still create a massive ripple. That’s exactly what happened on January 18, 2019, when one man sat in his house for 57 hours straight doing nothing but trying to obtain a 101 percent completion in the Nintendo 64 video game Donkey Kong 64. What on the outside seemed like any other videogame livestream on the popular streaming platform twitch.tv turned into one of the largest gatherings of support for the transgender and LGBT+ community at large, raising an astonishingly high $340,000 in donations for Mermaids, a UK-based organization that helps youth with gender dysphoria. 

Harry Brewis, otherwise known by his YouTube and Twitch.tv handle “hbomberguy” was relatively unknown until recently. Brewis was best known for his YouTube content, where he created several “Measured Response” videos, well-researched and scripted analyses weighing the (few) pros and (many) cons of groups such as Flat-earthers, Pick-up artists, Cultural Marxists, and people who think soy makes men more feminine. On January 14, 2019, Brewis uploaded a video that was simple and to the point: he was going to 101 percent complete Donkey Kong 64, a game he had spent over 50 hours on as a child, and only reached 69 percent completion. 

Brewis stated it would be a charity livestream on Twitch, with all of the proceeds going to Mermaids. “I chose to support this charity, because as a person living in Britain, I find the media discussion surrounding [LGBT+ issues] in my country, especially in its tabloids, to be woefully misinformed,” he stated in his video. There was also a spiteful side-effect, however; Brewis chose Mermaids specifically due to the effects of one former British comedian Graham Linehan, most known for his work on The IT Crowd and Father Ted in the 90’s. Linehan, who’s been observed to be quite transphobic, told his followers to question the funding Mermaids had received through the UK National Lottery, and since had its funding cut. 

“Well done, Graham! You have a massive audience and the power to choose to fight for progress in all the many forms we need in the world right now, and you used it to make sure some children won’t have access to helpful resources,” Brewis remarked in his video announcing the stream.

When the stream began, Brewis’ modest goal of 500 dollars was very quickly reached, and within several hours, that amount increased almost hundredfold. Brewis had several guests on his stream through Discord, and online messaging service, to keep him company: from fellow YouTubers like Linkara, a Minnesota-based comic reviewer, and Jim Sterling, UK-based video game journalist, to certain celebrities like John Romero, famous for the Doom series of video games, and even Chuck Tingle, author of parody adult novels such as Space Raptor Butt Invasion, along with many other smaller and larger transgender and LGBT+ community members on both YouTube and in the community at large. 
	“A lot of guests he had on were members of trans organizations and they got to raise awareness for their causes,” Iris Healy, a UMM second year and Twitch.tv affiliate, told the UR. “They also had some trans streamers come on, which is important because it is really hard to find a trans community of streamers after Twitch switched from communities to tags, where everything was rolled into the LGBT+ umbrella tag.”
Another side effect of this stream was the massive influx of new members to various LGBT+ organizations online. “I remember an admin for a Discord called transmission gaming came on to talk about the server,” Iris said, “and they instantly got flooded with hundreds of new members. This was a great was for the community to come together for a fantastic cause and it brought us all closer together!”
Within 24 hours, Brewis had acquired not only a large live viewership in the tens of thousands, but completely passed his hilarious goal of $69,420. 

Two notable guests who attended the stream were Grant Kirkhope, composer of Donkey Kong 64 as well as the voice of the titular ape, and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the Democratic U.S. Representative for New York’s 14th congressional district. 

Kirkhope, who very briefly popped into the stream to talk about the composition of DK64, as well as other miscellaneous things about the game and working with Rareware, the company who made the game, also provided one of the best memes of the stream. The chat, demanding in their loud text voices, as well as Brewis himself, asked Kirkhope to say “Trans Rights” in Donkey Kong’s voice. Kirkhope, after stating that DK’s voice was modulated in-game, so he couldn’t replicate it perfectly, put on his best monkey voice, and proudly stated “Trans Rights! Okay!” This spawned a massive amount of fanart and videos of Donkey Kong holding up the trans-ally flag, or even voice dubs and edits of the ape saying the sound-byte from the stream. 

Ocasio-Cortez, around 30 hours into the stream, popped in and surprised everyone, including Brewis, who did not expect someone such as her to join the stream. The mood changed from silly and lighthearted (starting a trend on twitter angrily crying “HOW DO YOU BEAT BEAVER BOTHER”) to a more serious discussion on transgender politics and the importance of the community at large. Ocasio-Cortez was also lightly interviewed about her gaming background, in which she proclaimed, despite not having much gaming experience with the console, that the Nintendo 64 was perhaps the “best system out of all of them.” Since then, Ocasio-Cortez has had video games in many of her posts on Twitter, with one of her most recent tweets joking about how the Democratic House should use Twitch.tv to reach a larger audience.

“Twitch has unfortunate culture of transphobia from its users. This stream really only got big when news organizations started reporting on it. Regardless of the barriers, I think we should try to keep organizing on platforms like Twitch and Discord, but I don't think it is enough,” said Iris.

During the majority of the stream, the hashtag #TransCrowdFund was trending on Twitter, largely in part due to Brewis’s stream. This hashtag centers around young transgender people who are in need of near-immediate donation to escape hostile or poor situations. This trend, coupled with the semiserious hashtag #ThanksGraham that sent many jokes and remarks about how Graham Linehan is doing viral marketing for Mermaids, gave many trans people on Twitter and YouTube a platform to show their thanks and tell their stories. It emboldened the community, giving them a welcoming light that started off the new year strong, with many events closing 2018, including the government shutdown, not boding well for the new year. 

“With any platform, whether streaming or social media, it really depends on the person behind the situation,” Desmond Homann, our Variety editor, told us. “This specific stream worked better than any of us could have expected, which is all thanks to the great people involved. I don’t doubt that something like Twitch can continue to raise awareness and connect people in reference to important social issues.”

Brewis’s stream proved that the trans community is strong and will not go down without a fight. And their work is not done yet. In a tweet just a few hours after the stream ended, Harry Brewis left an inspiring message: “There is so much more work to be done, in so many places. And we can do it, together. A brighter world is there for the taking. I love you.” 


