---
title: '40th Annual Jazz Fest 2018'
media_order: 39534570030_b49299d7e6_k.jpg
date: '13-04-2018 05:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Desmond Homann, Staff Writer,** _uploaded at 9:00 p.m. on Friday, April 13, 2018_

_Photo courtesy of_ **Hailey LaMont**

The weekend of April 6 and 7 saw the Morris campus bustling with good music, special guests, and an alarming amount of middle and high school students, all thanks to the University of Minnesota Morris Jazz Festival. Though this year only marked the 40th anniversary of the event, UMM Jazz director Dr. Jonathan Campbell announced at the outset of the first night that he had big plans for the 50th annual Jazz Fest. He refused to give any hints whatsoever to what these big plans could be, and instead quickly switched back to talking about this year’s festival specifically. The Jazz Festival includes a full weekend of clinics, rehearsals, and performances for all involved, primarily school-aged musicians from all over the state and from all different age ranges. For all, this is a grand, important, and highly entertaining event.

Before the first note of the weekend was played, the West Central Allstars introduced themselves in style when one of their saxophone players shouted, “I bet you’re wondering why we gathered you all here today,” immediately drawing laughter from those in the audience who heard him. The true start to the night, however, was their rendition of “In The Mood,” a tune originally written by Glenn Miller that has been performed all 40 years of jazz Fest. This is a pretty well-known jazz tune, and even I, having no experience with jazz music whatsoever, recognized the song instantly. Following this was an amazing cover of “At Last,” made famous by Etta James, another widely recognized song. After “At Last,” they decided to introduce the band, during which the members stood up and began to shake each other’s hands. This is just another example of why older people are not only wiser, but have significantly better jokes than the rest of us. Finishing up, they played a song called “Leap Frog,” insisting that it was specifically written about Kermit the Frog.

Both the Friday and Saturday night concerts featured performances by Kate Skinner (piano and voice), JC Sanford (trombone), Josh Skinner (bass), and Pete James Johnson (drums). The four special guests showed amazing balance between themselves and on their final tune backed outstanding high school soloists from the day’s clinics. It was during this group’s performance on Friday night that I was tapping my foot along to a Duke Ellington tune and felt a moment of solidarity with the child sitting directly behind me, whose aggressive kicking of my seat lined up neatly with my own movement. This is probably what people are referring to when they say that music is a universal language that brings people together. Saturday night, however, this group demonstrated their wide range of skills by playing slower, smoother pieces than those from Friday. This was especially impressive because those of us who made it to the Friday night concert had heightened expectations, which these performers still exceeded with ease.

The final group that performed both nights was our very own UMM Jazz Ensemble. This group received the majority of of the applause given over the weekend, and got everyone from visiting middle schoolers to Morris professors in the mood for jazz. With many different surprises on the way and tricks up his sleeves, Campbell announced the special and unique things the ensemble had in store, including the world premiere of a commissioned piece written by JC Sanford and three separate jazz covers of popular songs by Radiohead, The Rolling Stones, and P!nk. JC Sanford’s composition, brilliantly titled “UMM...Yeah,” was derived from the initials of the school. Said Sanford, “varying degrees of sarcasm” could be heard throughout the piece.

On Saturday evening, and for their 34th year in a row, the UMM Alumni Jazzers Big Band blew the audience away with their talent. This high energy group was, and seems to have always been, a favorite of the crowd. As amazing as all of the songs and the solos were, though, there was a definite highlight for the group when they performed a medley of Stevie Wonder’s songs. This was not just a personal favorite of mine, but was also loved by the audience, including UMM English professor Athena Kildegaard, who showed her approval by dancing a bit in her seat and drastically improving the whole experience for me. Not only was this medley a perfect conclusion for the group, it was also a prominent and powerful start for Saturday night’s performances, setting the mood for the rest of the evening. 

Following the second night of Jazz Fest, the UMM Jazz Program held a jazz jam session in town at Old No.1. This was far from the first time those in jazz have performed at Old No.1, but this time, they were joined by the special guest stars from earlier in the day, along with members from the Alumni Jazz Band. As was expected, everyone who performed did wonderfully, and all of the listeners spent some nice, relaxing time with their friends, free from children kicking the backs of their chairs. This was a pleasant end to an exciting weekend, and will hopefully be even better in the years to come.
