---
title: 'Why I’m Glad We Got Tax Cuts'
media_order: Taxes.jpg
published: true
date: '22-03-2018 23:31'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Tim Schrempp, Writer** _uploaded at 11:30 p.m. on Thursday, March 22, 2018_

In December, President Donald Trump passed the biggest tax reform since Ronald Reagan, giving 2017 tax payers a huge bonus in their paychecks. But not everyone is happy about citizens keeping more of their money, according to Senator Elizabeth Warren, the tax cuts are “blood money” and the cuts will cause “people to die.” Most opponents to the tax cuts say that it was harmful to the middle class and lower class Americans. But in reality, these claims are baseless. Tax cuts are generally great news for all Americans, especially middle class Americans.

The tax cuts are wrongly criticized for giving a larger tax cut to the wealthy over the poor or middle class. This is because the wealthiest Americans already pay the majority of taxes, so they will benefit from any tax cuts. The congressional budget states that the top 20% of earners are paying almost 90% of the congressional budget. Basic math proves that any tax cut will benefit people who earn more than most. To illustrate this, imagine you had the choice of receiving 10% of $100 ($10) or 50% of $1.00 ($0.50) you would get more money from the 10% cut of $100. This is simply a result of mathematics, not the rich paying people off, but some people still think that the wealthy should have their taxes raised for no other reason than because they’re wealthy. 

Raising taxes on the rich doesn’t produce more income through tax revenue, but less income. The wealthy can afford not to work and will choose not to work if it means working will make them lose money through taxes. Some might claim that keeping more of your paycheck is greedy but would you be willing to work an entire week or month for free knowing that the government would essentially take all of your earnings? Would it be greedy for you to not want the government to take an entire day’s worth of pay from your paycheck? Before the tax cuts, if you worked full time at a minimum wage job in Colorado, you would have payroll taxes already take an entire day’s worth of pay from each paycheck. There’s a word for people who have to work for free and that word is “slave.” Job creators and wealthy people can also afford to pay their employees more if they weren't overburdened with the corporate tax that is the highest in the world at 35% before the tax cuts lowered it to a 21% to compete with foreign markets. The tax cuts already allowed big business to give employees raises. AT&T even gave their employees a $1000 Christmas bonus and Apple brought thousands of tech jobs to America. Obviously, the tax cuts are good for both businesses and they will pass the savings onto their consumers. Everyone wants to keep their money and these tax cuts ensure that more people will be able to. The only people who you can argue are negatively impacted are the politicians that spend like drunken sailors. Let’s not forget that the democrats in congress who claim to be champions of the poor will see their taxes go up under this bill but will simultaneously claim the wealthy who aren't politicians don't pay enough in taxes. 

People worry that without huge tax increases the government won’t be able to continue funding the programs they offer like SNAP. The way I see it is if my brother needs food stamps to feed his family, the tax cuts could allow him to keep the money he would have given to the government. Instead, he could use that money from the tax cuts to pay for things like food for his family without the need for government assistance. If you really are concerned about the less fortunate needing assistance then don’t hold a gun to the head of your neighbor to demand their wallet so you can help those individuals. There is nothing generous about demanding someone with more money pay to more taxes. What would be generous is if you donated money and help them that way instead. There are countless charities you can donate time and money to if you wish for a variety of causes and the benefit is that charity doesn’t go to Trump’s golf trips. If you’re on a fixed income then start with your tax return, feel free to donate that amount to any charity you wish; there are many charities that do a better job of assisting the less-fortunate than the government.
In conclusion, we should be glad we got a tax cut. We get to save more money we earned and we shouldn’t be mad that someone gets a bigger tax cut than us because we’re all benefiting. We all benefit from tax cuts and keeping our own money. High taxes negatively affect all of us and really hurt the minimum wage worker who literally has his labor stolen from him to pay for government golf trips.
