---
title: 'Social Media Puts a Problematic Spin on Body Positivity'
date: '24-02-2019 16:14'
---

**By Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief** _Originally published in Issue 9, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, February 22, 2019_

A while ago, I went into the art gallery in the HFA. On the second floor, there was a photography book called Nude in Nature. It documented an experiment that the author took, to photograph herself nude in nature over one year, and had a message printed beside every photo, usually a quote. One of the core messages throughout the book was one of body positivity, of accepting and feeling good about one’s body and listening to one’s own voice above the standards set on our bodies in our society.

The book got me thinking about the importance of — and problems with — body positivity. One of the author’s points was that body positivity is for everyone, regardless or their weight, shape, gender, or any other aspect of themselves. I think that this is an important message — that everyone, no matter who they are, has the right to be comfortable and confident in their own bodies. 

I also think that if we think of body positivity as the goal for how to feel about ourselves, we need to remember that it may be a difficult goal, and that if it takes time and effort to feel good about your body, this isn’t something to feel guilty about. Regardless of how you think you should feel about your body because of how society feels about it, you shouldn’t feel guilty or ashamed if that doesn’t match up with how you really feel. 

In our society, we base so many things around social media and around our ability to connect with other people through technology. Sometimes this can be useful, but it also opens up an incredibly easy method for us to compare ourselves with other people, not just in our appearance, but in all aspects of our lives. And while that opportunity has a small possibility to be positive, to help us realize that an aspect of our lives might be damaging and needs to change, it is a far greater possibility to be harmful. It is much more likely to make us feel inadequate, and make us wish our lives were more like the lives of others. And when we connect the concept of body positivity as strongly as we have to social media, it becomes even more problematic.

With photo-based apps like Instagram and Snapchat becoming so popular, our generation’s version of the body positivity movement has turned into picture-based challenges, such as posting a photo of oneself with a caption of self-love and self-appreciation. But when we begin to link social media and body positivity in this way, it can become harmful. 

Simply posting a photo with a caption that may or may not be genuine isn’t going to actually improve our self images. It is highly unlikely that someone is going to feel better about their body after posting such a photo, as the point of the challenge is to find something about your body that you don’t necessarily like and then put a positive spin on it and gain support through positive comments. This form of body positivity has a large potential to leave the person posting feeling unaccomplished and guilty after posting a photo promoting body positivity doesn’t instantly fix their own insecurities.

I will be honest — I’m not sure that this problem is something we can entirely overcome. Humans are somewhat insatiable by nature, and that even if we find a way to be confident in ourselves despite social media making it easy to feel insecure through comparison, we will find other ways to feel inadequate. It reminds me of a quote I once heard: “You don’t have a soul. You have a body. You are a soul.” Now, whether you want to interpret that in a religious way or not is entirely up to you. But personally, I think it makes sense that, thinking about human self-images through the lens of that quote, it is far too easy to feel disappointed in our bodies from time to time. The best advice I can suggest is to keep going, to find things that you like about yourself and focus on those, and to remember that it’s okay to feel negatively about aspects of yourself sometimes, as long as you remember that they are not all of who you are.