---
title: 'Philosophy Professor Owen Flanagan Delivers Talk on Anger'
media_order: Anger1.jpg
published: true
date: '12-04-2018 19:32'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Joshua Schlenner, News Editor** _uploaded at 7:21 p.m. on Thursday, April 12, 2018_

At 7:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 29, Owen Flanagan, Professor of Philosophy at Duke University, gave the first speech of the 42nd Annual Midwest Philosophy Colloquium in Imholte 109. With the focus of the colloquium on happiness, Flanagan decided to give his talk on what most undermines it. Sometimes systematic or societal problems such as racism are responsible for undermining the happiness of the individual. Other times, it is economic inequality or simple bad luck. Flanagan was quick to point out that, on an individual scale, these are all problems that cannot be helped. Instead, his talk focused on the ways in which individuals undermine their own happiness. He decided to focus specifically on anger, which he called “the most destructive emotion.” “We live in an orgy of anger,” Flanagan told his audience, “It’s an anger that not only wants justice for itself but it actually wants to hurt.” 

Flanagan began his talk discussing how anger manifests differently across different cultures. In America and other western countries, anger causes individuals to feel like yelling or punching. In more traditional cultures, people simply leave the room when they feel angry. He shared a number of studies that showed how 85 percent of all psychological experiments are conducted on college sophomores in North America. This number rises to 95 percent when other WEIRD (Western Educated Industrialized Rich Democratic) countries are included. 

Professor Flanagan then shared the story of his visit to India in March of 2000. The purpose of his visit was to discuss the fundamentals of anger with the local scientists and Buddhists. He remarked that, while Western society regards anger as normative, Buddhists believe that humanity may be cleansed of the emotion entirely. During this meeting, Flanagan proposed the hypothetical scenario of sitting on a park bench beside Adolf Hitler. From a moral standpoint, Flanagan believed that feeling anger for Hitler would be normal, if not expected, and that the individual in question would even be justified in killing Hitler. After a few minutes of discussion amongst themselves, the Buddhists agreed that one would be morally justified in killing Hitler in such a scenario. They did not, however, agree that the individual in question should feel anger for him. Instead, they proposed that an individual should feel compassion for Hitler for “he could be your father, your mother, your daughter, your son.”
Professor Flanagan moved on to explain how anger is “normalized in everyday life.” He recalls a time when he was standing in line at his local café and the customer at the front of the line was slow in making his order. Flanagan explained that the woman behind him was “visibly fuming” and, upon returning to her seat, he overheard her complain to her friends about how rude other people could be. Though Flanagan agrees that there are a lot of things to be angry about, he believes that the temperature and the kinds of anger need to be adjusted. 

Flanagan then took a moment to share the following quote from Aristotle: “Anger may be defined as a desire accompanied by pain for a conspicuous revenge, on account of a perceived slight on the part of people who are not fit to slight one or one’s own.” Aristotle also believed in three kinds of anger: contempt, when one treats another as being of little to no value; spite, when one blocks another from some good simply for no reason other than a desire to keep the other individual from having said good; and arrogant abuse, when one publicly shames or humiliates another. Flanagan continued to explain that when it comes to any other kind of anger not fitting within any of the aforementioned three categories, such as anger at the weather, Aristotle did not believe such emotions to be anger but rather hatred. 

He then highlighted the three largest arguments against the elimination of anger, which he called the arguments of impossibility, attachment, and injustice. The argument of impossibility is the most straightforward; Flanagan stated that proponents of the argument believe that “certain emotions are wired into the circuitry of the brain and can’t be eliminated.” Though it has become contested in recent years, studies show that there are six basic emotions closely tied to a distinct facial expression found across all cultures. Normally, those emotions are expressed as happiness, sadness, fear, surprise, disgust, and anger. 

The attachment argument claims that attachments to people and projects are a requirement for living and that negative emotions, such as anger, are an unavoidable byproduct of such attachments. The proponents of this argument find it no coincidence that traditions such as stoicism and Buddhism that believe in controlling one’s emotions also ask that one becomes detached from the world. This detachment includes what most traditions would consider significant to living a good life, such as ties to family. 

The injustice argument focuses on the importance of righteous anger. Professor Flanagan recounted a letter written by a boy who had spent time within a concentration camp while Germany was under Nazi occupation. The letter focused on the day that the Allied troops arrived to liberate the camp. In it, the boy recalls watching as a military sergeant marched into the camp, visibly furious at what he saw before him. It was in that moment of righteous fury that the boy believed that humanity returned to the camp. 

Flanagan, however, was not convinced that humanity necessitates anger. Instead, he asked his audience to consider whether or not the boy would have seen humanity return to the camp if the sergeant had begun crying upon seeing the camp. Sadness, unlike anger, is permitted by traditions such as Buddhism and stoicism and is not, according to Flanagan, a destructive force like anger can be. 

As his speech drew to a close, Professor Flanagan did not ask those in attendance to stop feeling angry but rather to consider the many different perspectives of anger. Though anger may feel right or necessary at times, it is Flanagan’s belief that the emotion often does far more bad than it does good. 