---
title: 'On Your Headphones: Is This Thing Cursed?'
---

**By Alisa Samadani, A&E Editor** _Originally published in Issue 11, Volume 32 of The University Register on April 3, 2020_

Before the virus news was getting serious, I had planned to review “Is This Thing Cursed?” by Alkaline Trio. Now, as I am typing away at my desk, I am toying with the idea of reviewing a different album, something more uplifting. The 2018 album has a fierce tone, taking the listener on a journey of unfortunate events. Matt Skiba, co-lead vocalist and guitarist for Alkaline Trio, had just recently been diagnosed with depression a few years prior, and having signed on as a full-time member of Blink-182, he had a lot on his mind. Working with his Alkaline bandmates, Matt put together an album that was teeming with passion and power. That, and the band had very strong opinions about the state of America after the 2016 election. The album was released in August of 2018, and put Alkaline Trio back on the map as a well-respected punk rock band. Once again, I must stress that this album is not for the faint of heart: it is crass, morbid, and full of gnarly guitar riffs. However, hidden in between the anger-filled tracks are beautiful ballads that deserve some serious recognition. While “Goodbye Fire Island” is a fast-paced track ranting on and on about the rapid pollution of the Earth, and “Heart Attack” is about the struggles of maintaining one’s mental health, “Stay” is an uplifting tune about relationships and the depth of love.  For a punk rock band, Alkaline Trio has a clever way of weaving tear-stricken lyrics into a jarring rock song, creating strong, contrasting energy throughout every track. “Is This Thing Cursed?” has all the energy you need to get through the day-to-day drudgery. 

_Image above courtesy of Epitaph_