---
title: 'Cable Hardin: Inspiration and Processes of Animation'
media_order: screenshot.png
date: '13-04-2018 05:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Desmond Homann, Staff Writer,** _uploaded at 9:00 p.m. on Friday, April 13, 2018_

_Graphic courtesy_ of **Cable Hardin.** _It is the Adobe Animate CC project file of an animation that Hardin created for a project about a man who documented and took pictures of a KKK rally. The man ran into a high school friend at the rally and became nervous, hence the beads of sweat above the glasses._

On Thursday, March 5, independent filmmaker and animator Cable Hardin presented his work and animation process to a group of students from different film and media classes at the University of Minnesota Morris. Hardin’s presentation featured his background, a reel showing some of his many animated works, and details about the different animation processes used for each film. Cable Hardin did not know at first that he would go into film and animation and was going to school for geography. Though he had made a couple short films from a young age, including a hilarious 7th grade re-creation of the face-melting scene from “Raiders of the Lost Ark,” it was not until his senior year in college that he fully discovered his love for filmmaking. Several years after graduate school, Hardin worked on and off doing stage makeup and effects until he was called to South Dakota State University almost 12 years ago. He still teaches at SDSU to this day, but maintains a balance between his teaching and his animation.

Hardin’s most successful short film, “White Out” was featured in 26 different film festivals over the almost-four years since it was made. “White Out” is a stop motion narrative following a lonely pilot on a lonely planet. Hardin built the story around a sculpture of a bison that he has in his house. Originally, it was intended to be a “dark and brooding art piece,” but was later changed to be lighter so he could work alongside his children, introducing them to independent filmmaking while also drawing inspiration from them. When he was not working at home with his kids, Hardin would work on “White Out” at SDSU. “White Out” only featured two characters who were made of wool, wood, and wire. “It kind of reminds me of a miniature live-action film. You have the camera, the set, the actors; they’re all just small,” explained Hardin, reflecting on the complexities of this piece specifically. What originally was just intrigue about a small bison statue became something beautiful thanks to the help of Hardin’s kids, the people he worked with, and countless hours and frames. “White Out” exceeded Hardin’s expectations, which he credited to not getting caught up on any of his own worries about it, stating, “Make your thing, and even if you don’t think it’s a masterpiece, let the world be the judge and send it out anyways.”

Another amazing piece of Hardin’s, though vastly different from “White Out,” is an experimental animation on regenerative and sustainable agriculture. “Beebox” has no narrative story, but does contain a call to action, which was most clearly shown in the presence of the phrase “Know your food” in multiple different languages. This piece relied on visual influences, and did not closely follow the conventional rules of animation, which are just like the rules of film, but on a smaller scale and frame by frame. 

Another piece, “Bed Bug Bites,” did have a budget behind it, but it turned out to be a bit inaccurate when it came down to the details of dealing with bed bugs, so it was never really used. Hardin claimed that it was not his problem that it wasn’t used, and that he was glad to have a bit of fun with it and get the experience that came with creating this work. The bed bugs, which were made of clay and wire, were voiced by Hardin’s brother. Even with his other works, Hardin tends to use the voices of himself and his friends and family, explaining that there’s nothing wrong with working cheap. This strategy comes across as more resourceful than cheap, however and is an easy solution to finding voice actors for animated films and videos.
When asked the obvious question, “Why animation?” Hardin jokingly pointed out that “it’s hard to embarrass yourself as an animator,” though animation does require amazing control, attention to detail, and precision. Animation and filmmaking in general  is described by him as a “magical career” that is easier to get into than one might first expect. Cable Hardin continues to make brilliant works of art and will have more to come on his mission to broaden the definition of film and animation.
