---
title: 'More To The Moral: Birds Of Prey and How To Train Your Dragon'
media_order: httyd_1.jpg
date: '23-10-2020 19:07'
---

**By Alisa Samadani, A&E Editor** _Originally published in Issue 4, Volume 33 of The University Register on October 23, 2020_

With the infamous arrival of the pre-Halloween Minnesota snow showers comes the longing of cozying up with your loved ones during the holiday season (yes, I am including Halloween as a holiday). While the current pandemic is prohibiting many from visiting their families this year, one thing is for certain: campus is cheering our hearts through weekly film showings: Movie on the Mall. This is a weekly event where students are invited to pick a socially distanced square in the grass and, blanket and snacks in hand, enjoy an entertaining movie amongst peers. This month, two of the featured films have struck me as being more meaningful than their plot predicts: _Birds of Prey_ and _How To Train Your Dragon_.

On Saturday, Oct. 10, Morris Queer Student Initiative for Equality (MoQSIE) hosted a showing for _Birds of Prey_ from 8 to 10 p.m. The full title of the film, _Birds of Prey (and the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn)_, seems to give away the majority of the plot – Harley Quinn, the infamous lapdog of Gotham City’s most dangerous villain, has broken up with her volatile partner and has set out to live a high-voltage life of her own, unknowingly attracting the attention of every mobtser in the city. Throughout the film, Harley slowly forms an alliance with other females who have been wronged by the men of Gotham, in order to wreak havoc on notorious crime lord Roman Sionis, also known as Black Mask. While I will tiptoe around the actual plot of the movie (no spoilers here), this creation was birthed from a place of misunderstanding, and carries a lot more meaning than its mixed reviews on Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic. 
_Birds of Prey_ is about empowering women who have been dismissed as “assistants” or “ decoration,” while also bringing attention to Harley Quinn and Renee Montoya’s canon on-screen chemistry. Early in the film, Harley mentions that she has tried dating both men and women, and failed (up until The Joker). Loyal fans of the DC Universe may also be familiar with the story of Renee Montoya, who was outed as a lesbian multiple times during her appearances in Gotham Central, a comic book series about the Gotham City Police Department. Paying homage to both characters' backgrounds, as well as sexualities, says a lot about how far DC is willing to go against the grain of the film industry’s status quo. _Birds of Prey_ uses a barrage of dirty jokes, hilarious fight sequences, and memorable moments to show that women, women of color, and women who are LGBT+, can be terrifying arse-kicking heroes.

	As if that first film’s underlying message was not powerful enough, CAC Films and Saddle Club hosted a showing of _How To Train Your Dragon_ on Friday, Oct. 16, from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. Released back in 2010, _How To Train Your Dragon_ has placed itself in the Heartwarming Hall of Fame, joining the likes of _Big Hero 6_ and _Moana_. Set in the island of Berk, Hiccup, a young Norseman and heir to the chief of the clan, is expected to take on the role of any Berkian: slaying the dragons that constantly threaten the safety of all who reside on the island. Through extensive training, Hiccup feels that he has not reached a point where he can gain the clan’s approval as a Dragon Slayer. However, he manages to capture a rare species on a whim. This species, known as the Night Fury, had never been seen before. Knowing the rarity of his catch, Hiccup is ready to prove his worth to both his father and the clan – until he begins to bond with the Night Fury. The film follows the story of the growing bond between Hiccup and the Night Fury, who is referred to as  Toothless for his retractable teeth. What ensues is a heartwarming tale of love and betrayal, of mystery and the magic of, well, befriending a powerful dragon. 
_How To Train Your Dragon_ is a film with several morals, both visible and between-the-lines. Many viewers are familiar with the message of self-acceptance being weaved into the majority of the film, guiding Hiccup’s actions to the eventual reconciliation between him and his father, by controlling dragons through his own creative means. Another recurring theme is to seek the truth, and not take what is written down to be the absolute truth. Once again, the main character is not convinced by what he sees in the village and decides to investigate the truth about dragons for himself.  In today’s society, this simple lesson may be useful to rehash. Do not trust everything that you see, read, and hear, folks. Seek your own educated truth.

While we have yet to show any “holiday films” on campus this semester, I think that these two movies did a great job at weaving together a great message for students grappling with academics, the pandemic, and the upcoming election. From _Birds of Prey_, we are told that anyone can be recognized as a hero, and that it takes more than a few greasy Hollywood executives to quell those who are persistent. From _How To Train Your Dragon_, we are encouraged to seek our own truth, recognizing that there is no set definition of strength or intelligence in the history books. 

Carry these truths with you, dear readers, and brave against the stormy weather (both literally and figuratively) quickly approaching. Stay tuned for more Movie on the Mall events, such as this Halloween’s showing of Tim Burton’s _Corpse Bride_.

_Images courtesy of IMDb
