---
title: 'On Your Headphones: Vigils EP'
media_order: vigils_new.jpg
date: '08-03-2019 20:06'
---

**By Evan Douville, Staff Writer,** _originally published in Issue 10, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, March 8, 2019_

It’s quite phenomenal when you stumble upon a genre you thought your middle-school self had repressed, only to find out there’s still enjoyment and wonder to be had. After listening to French-American post-hardcore band Vigils’ first EP, Spinning, I remember exactly why I used to love this genre so much. Founded by lead French guitarists Enzo Aldasoro and “Shura,” they began their career with a cover of Melanie Martinez’s “Pity Party” back in late 2017, with the Spinning EP releasing in November of 2018. Their cover of Pity Party expertly melds the poppiness of the original with the metal/hardcore vibe the band is shooting for, creating a more rebellious, angsty version of the original. Spinning, the album’s eponymous opener, takes a much darker tone, creating an oppressive, moody tone reminiscent of early Black Veil Brides or Bring Me The Horizon, creating a dialogue about the way our worlds are turned upside-down after breakups and splitting up. The second song, Grinning, opens with more traditional metal-heavy guitars and screamed vocals, illustrating the dissonance we experience when everyone else is happy. Lyrics such as “is there a pill maybe I could take // so I wouldn't have to lie awake?” and “I may be bitter //  but I'm no fucking quitter // somehow, I always knew you'd be // the first to drop the ball” scream about the frustrations about seeing joy all around us when somehow we can’t even be happy. The final three songs on the EP (F.B.T.W, Bleak, and Stallion, which all released at the same time) take a more softcore, prog-rock sound, with F.B.T.W. and Stallion being personal favorites: F.B.T.W. has a pumping, thriving, electro-punk feel that cascades directly into the sweeping, emotional chorus and sorrowful, rebellious bridge. Bleak, a song that utilizes samples that also appeared in Asking Alexandria’s “Hopelessly Hopeful,” is full of rage and ire, reflecting Spinning and Grinning, and shows the rage towards their partner who has thrown everything away. Stallion, a soft, almost ode-like song, laments the loss of someone who fell from grace, and how the phrase “never meet your heroes” holds more weight than we’d like to admit. Stallion is further helped by the vocals of American singer Gil Catalano, with his metal, high-tenor voice that really lends well to the emotion present in the last three songs. The album tells a powerful story of loss and the emotional rebuilding that needs to happen afterwards, and the final songs leave your emotions spinning at the end. 

This gets my full recommendation, and brought me back to a time I thought I’d since forgot about: the hardcore rock and anthems I used to listen to back in the day. Vigils are great, and worth a listen.

A+
