---
title: 'Chancellor Behr on Likelihood of Moving Classes Online'
date: '25-09-2020 15:54'
---

**By Erik Kjer, News Editor** _Originally published in Issue 2, Volume 33 of The University Register on September 25, 2020_

Earlier this year, the entire University of Minnesota system abruptly shifted to a remote learning format. Students were sent home as dorms were closed alongside libraries, restaurants, and recreation centers. For many people this was the first time the realities of COVID-19 affected their daily lives, and we can all remember how bizarre and confusing the early months of online learning were. Things are different now. The University of Minnesota has spent months preparing for a return to in-person classes. In March, the call for a complete switch to online instruction occurred just days after a Twin Cities student became the first student within the UMN system to develop COVID-19. Now students have returned to every UMN campus and coronavirus cases on campus are not only expected, but the norm. The current pandemic has meant that universities have had to rapidly and radically change nearly every aspect of how they operate, and in our present environment it’s difficult to guarantee anything will stay the same. Despite the precautions that have been implemented, students still have concerns about a return to fully remote learning as colleges across the country close after experiencing on-campus outbreaks. The University Register spoke with University of Minnesota Morris Chancellor Michelle Behr regarding these and other concerns.

“We live in entirely uncertain times so nothing is for certain, but I can say there is nothing that’s happened so far on campus that, with respect to exposures, or cases, or student behavior, or staff behavior, or faculty behavior, that leads me to think we would go online this semester. Obviously I read the same things you guys read about [campuses closing after reopening], but that’s not our situation.” When asked about under what circumstances classes would go online or students would be sent home, the chancellor could not provide a direct answer. “We’re working with the Minnesota Department of Health, we’re working with the local public health people, we’re working with the UMN subject matter experts, and they’re all giving us guidance and if we were to get to a point where it was really obvious the pandemic was out of control or we were not equipped to handle it we would call in those resources to help us. I don’t in any way see a situation like last spring where we just had to abandon ship and it happened very quickly with very little notice. I would say we have scenarios in mind but we don’t have a plan that is ‘if X then we do Y.’ We have ‘here are some potential contingencies that might be happening and might be here we could address some of them.’ It’s a multilayered subtle set of responses depending on what happens.”

So far Morris has had dramatically lower case numbers compared to many other universities, and the chancellor cautiously attributed this success to the University’s culture in regards to the pandemic, along with its hybrid model and location. “This is merely speculation because I can’t speak for [other administrators], but I think that all along, the message not been ‘it’s you students and you’re going to be the problem’ it’s been ‘students, faculty, and staff, you have a choice, if you choose to come to campus, or if you don’t feel comfortable you can choose to take courses remotely, in the same way faculty have the ability to choose to offer classes face-to-cafe or remotely. Everybody has been allowed to create the scenario that works for them so that the message is again, very much, we’re all in this together and we want everyone to feel like they’re part of the solution and not part of the problem. Another factor is we’re in a rural area, so it’s a little different than being in the middle of a city just because of the myriad number of additional ways people could get exposed.”

The chancellor was not worried about the increase in cases within Stevens County. “Do I wish that the level of positive cases cumulatively was as low as they had been before August? Of course, but I don’t think it affects us one way or another in terms of our ability to carry on.” Some students the University Register has spoken with say that they have had professors ask them about their test results in front of classmates or have had other concerns regarding their medical privacy. “That should not be happening,” the Behr said. The chancellor recommended that students with concerns should first speak to their professor, and then submit a form of their concerns if they believe their concerns have not been addressed. “Unless I know about it or somebody else knows about it and knows the particulars, just having a vague [complaint] doesn’t help because it’s not actionable.”

Unless the situation on campus radically changes, Morris is prepared to continue in-person instruction for the remainder of the semester, and most likely the remainder of the academic year. However, despite this present state of security, Chancellor Behr still has some concerns. “Even though we’re all in this together I still feel a great sense of responsibility for everyone on campus. I’m concerned that we get through this as healthily and safely as possible. Morris is such a great place and I look forward to a time where we can all be in-person, on campus, but in the meantime I really want to encourage everyone to think about all the creative ways to continue to build community while keeping each other safe and well.”
