---
title: 'Local Democracy Needs You'
---

**By Troy Goodsell, Staff Writer**_ uploaded at 2:50 p.m. on Friday, April 27, 2018_

Local democracy presents the best opportunity for overcoming our polarizing, metastasizing politics, if only people would show up.
Regardless of political affiliation, ideology, and creed, when people focus on the local, they have a way of overcoming the partisanship and vitriol that our national politics engender. In James Fallows’s Our Town: A 100,000-Mile Journey Into the Heart of America, he describes the years he and his wife traveled across America to talk to people about their cities and towns. While it was not a rigorous ethnography by any means, the trends that they identify involve how communities share desires to improve via attracting graduates, investors, and self-sufficiency in service of a wider revitalization for the community. Traveling across the country, he saw it in every state, and if all these reformers, or the media, were aware of each other, it would be considered a bona fide movement. However, there is little focus on the way that every community is striving for the same goal, and thus, only the noise of the national stage is observed. As the threats to our community start to pile up, Morris desperately needs to recognize that our community’s desires are homogenous.
I have spent the better part of my time in Morris participating in and observing the area’s political scene. While there are certainly people better suited to deliver any message about the state of local politics, I have seen and learned enough to say that we need so much better from each other. As a student, I am sensitive to the demands on time that come with the academic workloads and the difficulties associated with being energized enough to go out and organize on campus. But we have a problem with engagement, especially when there are no glamorous and rousing people or issues on the ballot. MCSA is currently not filling its roster, there are no Marxist, progressive, or liberal groups consistently active, and new issues arise daily as poor policies shift against students at the campus and national level. I see the same students tending to these issues week in, week out. It’s unglamourous, unceasing work, and they push student interests as best as they can. 
I ask you, though: where are the new faces to replace the graduating ones? Where is the enthusiasm for civic life that our institutions, universities in particular, champion? We should not ask fewer students to shoulder more of the burden, as it reduces representation of views and will lead to poorer quality programming and fewer chances to meaningfully engage with governance structures. 
Illuminating this, how many people were aware of the campus losing its polling place? The UR did not cover the issue in its last issue, and with only about 25 students closely engaged with the issue, we have not been able to raise consciousness to the point of raising hell. The few taking the lead on this should have our gratitude, but I feel that this will be but a blip in the decline of student activism on the Morris campus. The same feeling animates me on the issue of office consolidation afflicting campus as an integral component of the Chancellor’s budget. On that issue, very few on campus had a say in its formation, and it sadly places us in conflict with those who we rely on the most to serve us. But if it requires us to criticize and challenge our school, we should have no compunctions about doing so. Yet, so few are taking up this issue, and a chunk of those who are are departing come this May. 
What drives the decline in student activism? A common refrain from the crowd who does not engage with local politics is that they do not feel like they are a part of the Morris community, which leads them to not get active, register to vote, or learn about the people here in a self-fulfilling cycle.
How many people can accurately recall what was on the ballot this past November? It was a referendum to raise property taxes pay for building bonding for the local high school. That was it, but it was as important as the candidates at the national or state level that are more widely recognized than any local issue. The tax increase determines if high schoolers have to deal with health problems from the mold in their school. It determines if your rent will rise or even if your landlord decides to get out of the real estate business. It will be a factor in where people choose to live in the city and what businesses the city gains. The referendum only had 1149 votes, yet it passed with 78.85% of the vote, enough for students to sway. The shape of the city and its character can be decided in local decisions like this, same as they can be shaped by state or national policy, like the financial aid that determined where you went to school (or did not, for that matter). When it comes to your four years here, you can have a large say in how the campus operates, where people live in the city, the public transportation the city offers, and whether people feel safe by engaging and having an impact. And you should not be afraid about opposition, because at a local level, we do largely want the same things for each other: economic security, education, opportunity, and safety. 
Together, we can meet these challenges. The few students organized currently are still fighting for a polling place solution. They have successfully halted an effort by the Board of Regents that was too broad in changing how the University handles sexual assault. MCSA is doing its best to make it known how student services will be impacted with the office consolidations and to report to the administration what is not working about the new campus structure, but who is going to be there to hold the line when these issues resurface next year? Who is there to meet new issues that will try to leave our campus underserved? All there is is us, and future students count on us to leave them a better campus than what we were given upon admission. We need to meet their needs, just as ours were met before us.