---
title: 'Incandescent Rage: Jess Larson on “The Body Politic”'
media_order: jess_new.jpg
date: '09-11-2018 00:00'
---

**By Melissa Voss, News Editor** _Originally published in Issue 5, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, November 9, 2018_

Jess Larson does not hide the fact that she is angry.  Making it a reoccuring statement throughout her October 29 Gender, Women, and Sexuality Studies Works In Progress Series talk, “The Body Politic,”  Larson expresses her emotions toward the current political stance on women through showcasing art that portrays the female body in the political light, as well as works of her own.  Before beginning her talk, Larson showed numerous disclaimer slides expressing her belief to share her opinion being part of her academic freedom, that her opinions are her opinions, and that she is a believer of science.

Larson opens up with a blunt statement: women are angry.  And through that anger, there needs to be a channel for that anger, an outlet.  She directly addresses the 2016 presidential election, where 94% of black women, 68% of Latino women, 83% of Asian-American women, and the 47% of white women who voted against the GOP are facing the 53% problem - the 53% of white women who voted on the side of the GOP.  With this, she states that women voting against the GOP become confused to the betrayal of the 53%, questioning what they really stand for as women.

The Trump administration’s actions towards women’s rights were also brought up by Larson.  She addresses the numerous changes that “undercut the lives and health of women.”  She states that as a proud woman, this moved her to express her concern and passion toward these issues.  She quotes Rebecca Solnit’s _Men Explain Things to Me -
Facts Didn't Get in Their Way_, “Most women fight wars on two fronts, one for whatever the putative topic is and one simply for the right to speak, to have ideas, to be acknowledged, to be in possession of facts and truths, to have value, to be a human being.”

She then returns to the notion of anger and rage, addressing her love for the concept of “incandescent rage,” a phrase that feels, as described by Larson, “so ticked off as if you can glow from it.”  Going forward, Larson addresses the continuous usage of hashtags and the power of social media around 2015, with some specific examples being the #MeToo movement, teacher strikes.  Larson also brings up the infancy of this movement, stating that young women under the age of 25 are in an age of new, uncharted territory for womankind.  Again, Larson addresses her anger, acknowledging and addressing to the audience “that it is not in the past tense, it is livid, it is live.”

Larson then moves on to the core of her discussion - discussing the body.  Throughout this course of her discussion, Larson showed multiple art pieces with the female body being the focus.  Artists such as Yoko Uno, Marina Abramovich, Judy Chicago, Janelle Monae, Rineke Dijkstra, St. Orlan, Hannah Wilke, Georgie Wileman, Skiki Smith, Casey Jenkins, Suzanna Scott, Salley Hewit, The Guerrilla Girls, Kate Kretz, and many more were shown to Larson’s audience.  With each piece, Larson gave context and understanding in the design and style of the art, as well as interpreting the beauty of the female body and the political stance the artwork took.  

She also mentioned her part with the Robert Mann Gallery in spring 2018 called “In Her Hands,” curated by Orly Cogan and Julie Peppito.  According to the Robert Mann Gallery’s website, the “In Her Hands” exhibit promotes that “Women in art and politics find themselves on parallel roads facing the urgent need to assert that we are all connected and embrace empowerment over traditional male systems of dominant power, where all humans regardless of gender, race or class will benefit.”  Larson’s contribution with her piece, _Look and Learn, Dear Midterm Voter (Senator Mazie Hirono)_, an embroidery piece that commemorates Democratic Senator Mazie Hirono, who has been the junior United States Senator from Hawaii since 2013; “[The piece] is based off of that she is steadfast.  [The piece’s] ideas that are coming from the judiciary, whether it is the LGBT, transgender, women's health, which is being imperiled more than ever.”  Now that the exhibition is over, Larson plans to gift Hirono the embroidery.  

The second part of her discussion turns to her take on the body as political movement.  To Larson she finds how women become who they are, “I find interest in how women construct identity, make choices for good or bad, where does nature versus nurture come in, and the grinding phrase ‘I’m not a feminist, but…’”  Larson is also interested on how women communicate and interpret one another, especially through the literal and implied meanings of language through messages and stereotypes, which Larson believes to be counterintuitive to women as a whole.  Finally, she states her interest in taboo theory and the laws that delegate attraction and repulsion between women.

Larson then addresses her 2018 embroidery project revolving around the inspiration of feminine sanitary pads and menstrual blood.  After being diagnosed with fibroids, or tumors in her uterus, Larson addressed her menstrual cycle and how she found the patterns found on her sanitary pads to be uniquely interesting, “It felt as if I was reading tea leaves...Kind of like a fortune teller.”  Larson also drew inspiration from the television show, “Mad Men” and the 1976 version of the movie “Carrie”, both of which address the taboo toward female periods.

The embroidery projects were embroidered by a machine that took photos of her own sanitary pads and converted them into multi-layered embodies, placing the images in the format of a tarot card, connecting back to her statement of finding that looking at them reminded her of reading tea leaves.  She then rearranged the now tarot cards in the formation of a periodic table, a pun that she originally did not have in mind till after the fact. Larson worked on the project in secret for at least a year, becoming fascinated with sanitary pads and “breaking the rule of menstrual pads.”

To end her presentation, Larson emphasises on the need for the younger generation to go out and vote.  Quoting again from Traister, “I think everybody has to buckle in for a long time coming.”  She directly addresses the younger members of the audience, stating the importance of how their actions now affect the lives of their children, grandchildren, and the people surrounding them.

Larson also gave a list of recommended readings on a final presentation slide before the Q&A session began.

_photo courtesy of UMM Flickr_