---
title: 'Aiming for Acceptance, Not Othering'
media_order: acceptance.jpg
date: '25-09-2020 16:15'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - featured
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _Originally published in Issue 2, Volume 33 of The University Register on September 25, 2020_

It is now officially fall, and I’m dreading the moment I hear a friend joke that the weather here in Minnesota is “sooooo bipolar!” It’s a joke that I see online more often than I’d like to, but at this point it doesn’t surprise me much anymore. There are a lot of jokes about mental illness and mental disorders that people seem to be largely unaware of, but for those of us who do live with these disorders, what was meant to be a joke can stick with us long beyond the end of the conversation.

I was talking to a friend recently about a bad day I was having—I can’t remember now what event happened to spark that conversation—when he interrupted to compare me to a character from a TV show. Under normal circumstances, this would be a huge compliment, as this character is my favorite from the show, but this conversation quickly became uncomfortable as I struggled with the basis of this comparison. This character, as I recall, is said in the show to be somewhere on the autism spectrum, though he never goes into detail on what that means for him specifically. When I searched through online forums and blogs, I found many people on the spectrum arguing that this character was a good representation of their own experiences, even when he was the subject of jokes about not being quite human or quite the same as everyone else. I am not on the spectrum and cannot speak for those who are; I just know that I enjoy him as a character.

The way that I was being compared to this character was not because of similar interests or any super admirable traits, but instead was a comment on how this friend was perceiving me (in a moment of bipolar mania)  as being different from the others in our friend group, being a whole different kind of person. He could have made the same joke using an alien, a robot, or some non-human creature, as these characters are sometimes used to depict mental illness in the media. I felt terribly conflicted. On the one hand, it hurt to be referred to as “not normal.” Additionally, autism and mood/psychosis disorders, while overlapping in some symptoms, are not the same. On the other hand, I certainly don’t mean to say that being compared to someone on the spectrum is insulting in itself. These feelings were really uncomfortable and difficult to navigate. When I tried to explain the way that I was feeling hurt, I was met with an even worse response, though again unintentionally: “Exactly, Desmond. You can have real person emotions as a treat!”

As you can probably guess, I was NOT happy with this response, but felt worse toward myself than toward the other person. This is because one thing that I have struggled with for a very long time in my little mental illness journey was a terrible fear that I’m not a real person, just like his text said. I don’t mean this in a metaphorical sense; this has nothing to do with my “purpose” in life, but is quite literal to me and to many other people with mood disorders. Before I got help, there were times that I was genuinely afraid that I simply stopped existing when other people weren’t around, almost like I was some shared imaginary friend, and it left me entirely unable to be alone which in turn caused other problems, and so on. (This is something really difficult for me to write about and speak openly about, but I hope 
that it helps gives some context to how deeply this conversation with my friend affected me.)

I know I’m not alone in feeling this way or dealing with conversations such as these. I feel frustrated when I try to open up about my mental health and am met with people talking down to me like I’m unintelligent or a child. In moments of honesty and vulnerability, it is crushing to hear these unintentionally patronizing jokes. I know that, like that TV character, I’m someone who goes deeply into life and, at times, is more emotionally affected than those around me may be. I hope that someday I don’t have to feel like a source of entertainment for my friends and acquaintances while I’m just trying to go about my day. Othering people, even as a joke, can impact someone long after a conversation is done, and all of us, even people who do struggle with mental illness, need to be aware of their words and actions to best practice acceptance of those who are different from us.

_Image on top courtesy of Touchstone_