---
title: 'LGBTQIA2S+ P l a y-i n-a-D a y'
media_order: playinaday.jpg
date: '22-03-2018 00:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Desmond Homann, Staff Writer** _uploaded at 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 22, 2018_

_Photo courtesy of_ **Megan Steblay**

Saturday, February 24 was the night of the second annual LGBTQIA2S+ Play-in-a-Day. This event was put on by Meiningens Student Theatre and Morris-Queer-Student-Initiative-for-Equality (MoQSIE). Though the three plays were performed in the evening, those participating in the event had been working for hours to perfect them. The day began at 9p.m. for the writers, and the directors and actors started rehearsing around 8a.m. Many of the students involved consider fitting rehearsal into a 13-hour day to be the biggest challenge for Play-in-a-Day. Wyatt Anderson, one of the actors, explained that memorization was an obstacle that he and many others had to overcome due to the limited rehearsal time. Memorization is not the only challenge faced in this event, however. Another actor, Caroline Vodacek, states that “it is hard to say goodbye so soon to a script you really love working with. In Play-in-a-Day, you’re not given time to grow tired of a show!” 

The first play of the night was _My Love_, written by Demcie Mesteth and directed by Sally Bremer. This play, told from the point of view of a sailor (Wyatt Anderson), reflected on memories of a loved one through the use of flashbacks and a journal. Overall, this was a hauntingly beautiful story of adventure, memories, and loss. The timeline of this play was wonderfully intricate, and ending with the chronological beginning of the story was an amazing choice in writing. As the play progressed, we learned more about the main character, the lover he was forced to leave behind, and the intriguing characters aboard the ship. The captain of the ship (Hannah Brockway), jokingly expressed that keeping her character’s accent consistent was more difficult than she expected, but that she had a lot of fun with it. 

The second play was _Coming Out (Again and Again)_, written by Rachael Knafla and directed by Thomas Pederson. This play had some very comedic moments, some stressful conflicts, and stayed quite realistic the whole time. Many of those in the audience were able to relate to the difficult decisions the main character (Fiona Herbert) faced. Those who may not have been able to relate to these coming out stories were still able to deeply understand them, and this realistic depiction of the struggle of coming out made the play easy to follow. In this play, it was said that “You can never come out to people once, and sometimes ‘people’ means ‘one person.’” This speaks on the stress felt by many of those in the LGBT community, as coming out is often a process that has to be done multiple times in multiple ways, depending on who one is coming out to.

One amazing detail of this play was Knafla’s incorporation of each actor’s different talents and interests. For example, Spencer Hammerstein’s ability to solve a rubix cube in under 30 seconds, which drew surprised laughter from the audience. Another example was the small detail of including lilacs, the favorite flower of Hannah Retzer, who played the best friend and love interest. The most significant inclusion of the actors’ talents was the use of sign language between the grandmother and the best friend. When asked about the use of sign language, Katie Rowles-Perich, who played the grandmother, explained “I am by no means fluent in ASL, but I loved that it could add another dimension to our play!” 

The third play was _Moon River_ written by Paige Quinlivan and directed by Maggie Caplan. This play featured some wonderful music and narration to accompany the story that followed two girls who were two sides of the same coin. This duality was also incorporated into choreography, and the dancing and mirrored movement of the two main characters was very visually appealing. This play, set in 1950’s Iowa, gave off small-town vibes that were reflected in the music, dancing, and unique characters. Contrasting the beautiful music and charming characters, there was a dark twist that resulted in a knife fight and the death of two characters. Each complex aspect of _Moon River_ fit together perfectly, resulting in an amazing, yet tragic story of two girls who felt they did not quite fit in with the rest of the town.

The two main characters of _Moon River_, Georgia and Frankie, were played by Bailey Soika and Caroline Vodacek, respectively. This was actually the third time these two have played a couple; they were most recently seen together in _Eurydice_. Vodacek felt that this choice in casting made the performance easier and more comfortable and stated, “If two actors are already comfortable with each other, that means that time that would be spent building an intimate relationship onstage can instead be spent on finer details of the show.” 

The majority of those involved in events such as Play-in-a-Day agree that the best part of the show is the people involved. “My favorite part is seeing queer folks telling queer stories. So often we are misrepresented or not cast in roles that are written about us,” Katie Rowles-Perich explained. Wyatt Anderson had something similar to say, stating that the highlight was “getting the chance to explore queer stories in theatre, because they aren’t as common as heterosexual ones.” Clearly, the sharing of queer stories written by queer individuals was the perfect way to kick off Pride Week. Play-in-a-Day allows individuals to celebrate the LGBT community, and hopefully this event will continue to happen in the future.
