---
title: 'Dry Fasting Mania is Not a Wellness Trend - It is an Illness Trend'
date: '21-02-2020 22:57'
---

**By Tehya Wachuta, Editor-in-Chief** _Originally published in Issue 9, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, February 21, 2020_

We live in a digital age, and while our advanced technology is useful for attaining information quickly and being able to easily communicate with others, its speed and
efficiency also make it a vector for harmful, misinformed trends. One of the more recent trends circulating the internet promotes a horrifying new diet called dry fasting.

Dry fasting, if you haven’t heard of it, is an incredibly harmful diet which prohibits a person from any intake of food or liquid. Unlike traditional fasting, which still permits a person to drink water, dry fasting restricts all consumption of any kind. In “hard” dry fasting, the faster is not only prohibited from consuming food or water, but also from coming into contact with water, meaning they can’t shower, bathe, or brush their teeth. This is obviously very dangerous, but supporters of the trend on social media claim that it is a safe, highly effective way to lose weight. Reading some of the testaments to the dry fasting trend, I was horrified that people would believe restricting all food and water for days was a healthy decision.

“I can’t believe it took my dad one year to convince me that food is just another attachment and conditioning,” read one Twitter post on the subject. “I think it’s crazy that we are eating, drinking, and sleeping loads and that’s supposed to be normal.” 

The idea that someone’s parent tried, for a year, to convince them not to eat food is deeply, deeply disturbing to me. Food is a necessity for life, not an “attachment” that needs to be overcome, and the perpetuation of this mindset is not a wellness trend — it is a malady on our society.

Now, I know that fasting has more of a history than convincing young adults on social media to risk their health for American beauty standards. Dry fasting has been a religious practice for ages, and is an important part of some cultures. During Ramadan, for example, healthy Muslims fast for an entire month. However, there is a significant difference between Ramadan fasting and the fasting trend plaguing social media. During Ramadan, fasters do not eat from sunrise to sunset, but they are
permitted to eat before sunrise and after sunset. Also, notice that I specified that only healthy Muslims partake in the fast. Children are not expected to fast until they reach adolescence and anyone who is ill, pregnant, or otherwise unable to fast is exempt, although they can make up their lost fast later. Although this fasting tradition could be argued to be unhealthy, it is healthier than completely abstaining from all food and water for days on end. And while there are usually careful health precautions taken around the Ramadan fast, there does not seem to be any regard for basic health around the current dry fasting trend.

“No water for me since four months now,” read one Twitter post promoting the trend. “Since I start[ed] to heal my kidneys through dry fasting, which helps them to filter more efficiently, I stopped drinking ‘empty’ water.”

The tweet goes on to explain the concept of so-called empty water. Basically, the belief is that tap water is unhealthy and “congested with toxins,” and eating fruit or drinking fruit juice is a healthier way to consume water. This makes absolutely no sense to me on multiple levels. First, your body absolutely needs water to function. That is just a basic fact of life. Second, the idea that dry fasting provides some sort of relief for your kidneys is as illogical as it is harmful. The kidneys are one of the body’s major organs, and one of their primary functions is to process water. Dehydration can lead to permanent kidney damage, which can, if severe enough, lead to death. Major organs never, never need a break from their jobs — their jobs are to keep us alive, and giving them a break from that will not end well for us.

This entire concept circles back to a topic I’ve discussed in editorials before: America’s body standards. The technology used to circulate this harmful trend is also used to perpetuate unrealistic body standards and overload vulnerable youths with images of ideal bodies. It is one thing to set a healthy goal for one’s own body in attempt to minimize health risks or feel more comfortable with oneself; it is another thing entirely for masses of people, influenced by overwhelming messages telling them that their bodies are in need of drastic change to reach unattainable beauty standards, to put themselves in mortal danger in attempt to reach those standards.

This mindset is normalizing and encouraging behavior that, if it doesn’t lead to illness or death, could certainly lead to eating disorders. Our obsession with weight 
loss, and our blind willingness to follow any means to lose weight, is not wellness. It is not self love. It is not healthy. It is a mass illness, rooted in our society’s fixation
with “the ideal body” and sustained by the nearly inescapable messages that our bodies will never be good enough. I urge you all, readers, to try not to fall victim to this abhorrent trend. Even if you are not satisfied with your body, be careful with how you try to change it. Make sure that you are not putting yourself in danger. And please, please, keep eating food and drinking water.