---
title: 'The Possibility'
media_order: toast.jpg
date: '21-02-2020 00:11'
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _Originally published in Issue 9, Volume 32 of The University Register on Friday, February 21, 2020_

The face in the mirror that looked back at Cyril was tired and unsmiling. Those blue eyes had not in many months shed tears from laughter nor from sorrow. That unmoving mouth did not remember how to move to form the word “fun” and wasn’t planning on trying to recall that anytime soon. Cyril blinked, rubbed his eyes, and scratched at his not-quite-beard. His hair, a mousy shade of grey-brown, was similar in color to that of his cardigan, an item of clothing that, like many in his possession, never fit quite right but was surprisingly warm. He found his appearance to be acceptable enough for now, and made his way out of the cramped bathroom.

The kitchen, small and cluttered, was somehow always a little too dark. Cyril didn’t bother to turn on the light, but tugged the curtains open just a bit more. The light that melted into the room was cold and grey, but lit up the room as Cyril moved over to stand in front of the counter and watch his coffee slowly trickle into the pot. As he waited, he gently put two slices of bread— twelve grain, as he wouldn’t have it any other way— into the toaster. The counter was decorated with any assortment of curious thrift store finds, from pristine figurines to seashell-covered picture frames. There was barely any space for Cyril’s plate here, but the lucky cat on the windowsill waved approvingly, its battery surely about to give up any day now. Cyril tipped his head to the plastic cat as if to wish it a good morning, and turned his attention to the corner by the microwave.

This corner of the counter was slightly neater than the rest, and was reserved for a crisp and clean daily affirmation calendar, untouched by crumbs or coffee stains. Approaching the calendar with the poorly-concealed wonder of a child preparing for Christmas, Cyril snatched off the top piece of paper, revealing today’s advice: Embrace the possibility of abundant joy. Cyril took in a thoughtful breath and clasped his hands behind his back and gazed out the window. This moment of contemplation was cut short by the abrupt pop of the finished toast.

The day would start off exactly the same as every other: one piece of toast with butter, one piece of toast with low-sugar strawberry jam, and a cup of coffee with two sugar cubes and no cream. The jam, as Cyril discovered, was running low. This came as no surprise to the tired man; it was a Sunday morning and the grocery store was simply a short drive away. First, though, to finish breakfast. 

His breakfast, isolated but not lonely, was subtly enjoyed in the living room and accompanied by the news. The volume on the TV was a dull whisper, just loud enough to pick out points of interest. Cyril often had plenty of time to catch up on some of the news, or at least to listen until all the bad news of the world began to stack up and poke little holes in Cyril’s moderately good mood, deflating his happiness and energy. He wished he could be more involved in politics and everything going on around him, but he didn’t quite have the energy to know how to help. This morning was not filled with negative news, however, as the night before had been some sort of celebrity award event, movies or TV or something related. Cyril never took interest in such things, but as he returned his attention to his meal, a name jumped out from the TV.

“and Roger Grant Jr. has actually made his way to the ribbon-cutting ceremony already, making this quite a busy morning for the fresh-onto-the-scene philanthropist!” Upon hearing this, Cyril raised his eyes and squinted at the outdated screen. Ahead of him, almost materializing just across the hardwood floor was a man maybe 20
years younger than Cyril, a classy touch of silver at the edges of his silky black hair and the lines of a shining smile worn into his face. If there had been cream in Cyril’s coffee, it would have grown sour at this exact moment.

“Hmmph, because just being a star wasn’t enough for him?” Cyril quietly grumbled to nobody in particular. With that, he turned off the TV, and was met with his reflection in the darkness of the screen. Had his hair always been this thin? Had his shoulders always slanted down at this angle? Cyril leaned forward in his chair, pretending for his own sake that he was unbothered by this reflection. In his 74 years of life, Cyril had spent an embarrassing amount of time prodding at the weak points in his reflection. In school, he was never as muscular as the boys on the sports teams. In college, he never wore the right clothes. As a working man over the next few decades, he became worried that his genetics were leading him down the same path as his father, and each time he looked into his own eyes while brushing his teeth or fixing his tie his sighs grew longer.

Cyril shook his head as if clearing it like an Etch-a-Sketch, though he didn’t know if anyone still used those. The sand of his negative thoughts settled back down somewhere only to be concealed by plush armchairs and cashmere sweaters. It was now time to clean up from breakfast, though there was not much work to be done. Cyril found something almost therapeutic in cleaning, however, taking on a sudden grace in his steps as he glided around the small house. Something that he had heard on a TV show 20-some years ago stuck out in his mind each time he cleaned: Clean like the Queen is coming for dinner! While not British, not a child, and not concerned about the whereabouts of royalty, Cyril found this phrase affective. After all, he had no kids to say this to, so why not say it to himself in a quiet voice in the back of his cluttered mind. If the Queen were to come visit, she would likely be unimpressed. 

Cyril clicked on the radio and began to clean anyway, conjuring up fantasies where he stood proud as the host of grand dinner parties. When the guests came, he would surely say “sorry for the mess, and watch your step!” or maybe “it’s not much, but it’ll do!” A sneaking hint of a smile dawned on Cyril’s face. The table in his kitchen was small, but he could picture a variety of side dishes crowded onto the surface. “Oh this?” he would comment, “just a little something I whipped up for a snack!” Cyril let out one quiet laugh at the thought of this pride, but caught himself, and looked over his shoulder as if someone might be watching him in shock. With an embarrassed cough, he adjusted his cardigan and returned to silently wiping down the table. It was then that he heard those words again, this time coming from the radio DJ.

“I don’t know if you all saw this, but Roger Grant totally just opened his own health food place that, get this, donates fresh produce to local families! Can you believe it?”

“The world needs more people like him,” added the DJ’s co host, “Mr. Grant really is an inspiration to us all!”

“Well he isn’t to me!” Cyril spat out under his breath. Perhaps this wasn’t personal; Cyril couldn’t say for sure. Usually, he mixed up celebrities, unable to put the right names to the faces, but he would never forget Roger Grant, though they had never talked. What made one person better than another? His looks? His ability to memorize snarky lines of dialogue? The number of businesses he opened? The size of his family? Feeling a bit defeated, Cyril returned to the living room and sank into the soft loveseat, wishing some unseen force could just tell him what to do today. Still, he could not stop wondering what more he needed to do to be as real of a person as someone like Roger Grant, unless it was too late for a man like him to change. Who was going to praise someone like Cyril over the radio? Time usually was not a friend of change, at least not in this house, but that did not mean Cyril needed to settle into stagnation and dismay. Perhaps it was simply time to pick up a new hobby. With expansive time, no distractions, and a lucky cat on his side, Cyril could surely find something creative to do today. His tiny ghost of a smile returned once more as he prepared himself for an abundance of self-made joy.