---
title: 'Documentary Showcases Cultural Bridges Built Through Friendship'
content:
    items:
        - '@self.children'
    limit: 5
    order:
        by: date
        dir: desc
    pagination: true
    url_taxonomy_filters: true
---

**By Trey Goodsell, Staff Writer** _originally published in Issue 11, Volume 30 of The Univeristy Register on Friday, April 27, 2018_

Emmy Award-Winning filmmaker Lisa Gossels has a mission: she wants to use her documentary My So-Called Enemy  to bridge cultural divides across the world.  Her film chronicle, Palestinian and Israeli teenage friendships despite their countries’ decade-long conflict, and she believes it can offer insight not only to this divide, but to those which exist in American society between the rural and urban, the secular and religious, the elites and the commoners.

On April 18, the Muslim Student Association, the Office for Equity, Diversity, and Intercultural Exchange, the Women of Color Association, the Commission on Women, and Gender Equity, the Black Student Union, the Morris Queer Student Initiative for Equality, the Intervarsity Christian Fellowship of the USA, and the United Students for Africa brought Gossels and her film to Morris in a bid to teach the community how having the hard discussions and putting a face to one’s adversaries can bridge the great issues of modernity. Accompanying the showing of Gossels’s film were two workshops on conflict resolution inspired by the program featured in the film, Building Bridges for Peace. Esmira Alieva, a member of MSA and one of the organizers, described the key activity of the workshop: drawing a flower with six petals on both sides of a sheet of paper and filling in the petals on one side with descriptors relating to how you see yourself and the other flower with descriptors of how you feel others see you. After that, pairs were formed so that the participants could read each other’s flowers. To Alieva, the exercise was very self-reflective, asking her why she saw herself the way she did, and how that self perception is malleable based on the circumstances she was in. The larger idea she took home was that it is important to develop skills to understand that other people are experiencing similar feelings, and that they are all worthy of respect because of that. 

The documentary presented portraits of adolescence in the middle of the world’s most intractable conflict of Palestine and Israel. Israel was formed in 1948 by the Allied Powers after the formation of the United Nations. They carved out pieces of Palestine for the survivors of the Holocaust and Jewish people desiring a state to relieve the effects of the great diaspora that had been occurring since ancient times. Many sites in modern Israel possess great significance to the Jewish faith, but Islam and Christianity also lay claim to those sites and others in Israel. The people already living in the lands that became Israel, many Arab tribes comprised of the three Abrahamic Faiths and collectively known as Palestinians, became dispossessed by the imposition of a new state by foreign powers. The 70 years since have been marked by two major intifadas, or occupations, of the lands that form modern Palestine, the Gaza Strip and the West Bank. Currently, there is no peace between the two states and even acknowledging separate states leads to rancor among Israelis and Americans alike. 

In this quagmire, Gossels finds her six subjects: Adi (Israeli, Jewish), Gal (Israeli, Jewish), Hanin (Palestinian-Israeli, Muslim), Rawan (Palestinian, Muslim), Rezan (Palestinian, Christian), Inas (Palestinian, Muslim).

These subjects are adolescent women who have known conflict their whole lives. Each brings a history of distrust, hatred, and wariness to their conversations, facilitated by Building Bridges for Peace in New Jersey. The women’s earliest conversations are the most emotionally fraught, angry in particular, with one woman claiming that the suicide bombings of Israelis are justified with the long history of conflict. As they have these conversations, they slowly form bonds about the shared experiences of loss, grief, security, and peace. At the end of their time in the U.S., they are emotional about leaving each other to return to opposite sides of a entrenched conflict. 

Over the course of the rest of the film, we see the various paths laid before the six women. The relationships they formed inform how they lead their lives. Gal, an Israeli, is distraught over having to fulfill her compulsory service as she would be fulfilling the image that her friend Rawan, a Palestinian, has of the occupation of the West Bank. She eventually fulfills her service because she dreams of reforming her country through joining the civil service, which obligates the military service. Meanwhile, Rezan, a Palestinian, shows Gossels the increasingly impenetrable walls and armed security force of Israel. The West Bank is so heavily policed that there is little migration even within its borders. During a reunion two and a half years after their summer together, Inas, a Palestinian, cannot gain permission to travel to East Jerusalem, despite already being in the West Bank. Rawan also loses her father during the documentary, because they could not leave their village to get him medical treatment, informing Gal’s fear of joining the Israeli Defense Force. 

The six women maintain their ties with each other despite the pressures of their societies to embrace hostility and fear. A few earn positions to influence another generation of adolescents toward peace, providing a counter cycle to the cycle of violence that has inundated Israel. Alieva agreed with the film’s message that the relationships the women formed are powerful forces to overcome the Israel-Palestine conflict, and more widely, that personal relationships are transformative in resolving long standing tensions: 

“I think [the] girls meeting and interacting with their enemies, made them see the issue from the other side. And [the other side became] as bad for them… They saw the issue from both sides. Just the fact that they are aware of this now and that they think about it, that they think about [the] other side, how [it would] make [them feel], and that came only because they got a chance to interact, they got a chance to listen to each other and, like, to talk. I think assumptions affect, you know, the way we view conflict, but communication and willingness to understand can make a huge difference and can change the way we view it.”