---
title: 'Collaboration and accessibility define UMM fundraising campaign'
---

If you have appreciated the additions to the Student Center any time in the last week, you have a very aptly named family to thank.
The University Administration opened the new Edward J. and Helen Jane Morrison Performing Arts Center this past Friday, September 21. The Center encompasses the re-modeled Edson Auditorium and the lobby area outside. Some of the note- worthy additions include the new entrance that accentuates the presence of the auditorium, the new charging ports coupled with counters, and the new flooring for the previous opening into the basement level and first floor of the Student Center.

The name reflects a key part of history for the campus. Edward J. Morrison was a newspaper publisher turned educational activist and community leader for Morris during the 50s, 60s, and 70s. His family started the Morris Tribune, and published it for 101 years before Morrison sold it to Forum Communications in 1999. In 1957, he began serving as the President of the West Central Educational Development Association, of which he was a founding member. He and Helen Jane Morrison, his wife, lobbied the state legislature to establish the University of Minnesota Morris from the West Central School of Agriculture (WCSA) during his tenure. In the mid-1960s, they organized the first concert series held on the Morris campus. That concert series eventually became the Performing Arts series held each year. 

If the Morrison family name sounds familiar, it is because it also adorns the gallery in the Humanities-Fine Arts building. The Edward J. and Helen Jane Morrison Gallery was established to honor their history as organizers and supporters of the campus. Similarly, it was Helen Jane’s donation, after the passing of Edward J. in January 2017, that started the process of renovating Edson Auditorium. The honoring of the campus’s past beautifully juxtaposes the modernity that the gallery and auditorium exude, a sentiment captured by Jenna Ray, of UMM’s Communication and Marketing office, to the Stevens County Times. 

The ceremony that accompanied the center’s unveiling was invite only, and attended by prominent alumni and donors to Morris and the wider University of Minnesota system. The ceremony was the public reveal of Morris’s A Model for Living and Learning fundraising campaign, which is a part of the wider University of Minnesota’s Driven fundraising campaign. Morris hopes to raise $21 million dedicated to specific goals, such as student scholarships, the endowment of faculty, the improvement of campus facilities, and environmental programming that ties Morris more strongly to the rural communities in Western Minnesota.

The campaign is expected to alleviate some of the perils of legislature budgeting and the hostile political climate towards higher education across the country, according to a statement from Chancellor Michelle Behr posted to the campaign’s website. Further, she wishes to see UMM fulfill its roots as a communal effort to make higher education accessible to Western Minnesota.

“I have seen the power of community engagement to positively impact higher education—UMM itself is the result of community collaborations. Just as the es- tablishment of UMM was a communal effort, so too, will this campaign present a chance for us all to come together to enable UMM to soar,” said Behr in the statement.

The spirit of collaboration and accessibility pervades the past and the fu- ture of the campaign. During the ceremony, John E. and Nancy E. Lindahl, co-chairs of the Driven campaign, spoke of the small army of volunteers work- ing in the Twin Cities and across the state for the campaign. Later, a dramatic reading of “There is a Quiet Spirit” by T.S. Long, instructor at the WCSA, brought together four alumni and one student from four generations together.

The final remarks by Liz Morrison, class of 1975 and daughter of Edward and Helen Jane, were on the many performances that the campus hosted during her time. Whether it was Peking, Japan, or Ireland, the performers needed great collaboration to achieve accessibility here in Western Minnesota.

Whether it was one very committed family or the state legislature, collaboration made Morris what it is today. The supporters of the new performing arts center are keeping that spirit alive, and hope that you will too.