---
title: 'Native Skywatchers Emphasize Importance of Preserving Culture Through The Stars'
media_order: Skywatchers_new.jpg
published: false
date: '01-04-2018 17:38'
content:
    items:
        - '@self.children'
    limit: 5
    order:
        by: date
        dir: desc
    pagination: true
    url_taxonomy_filters: true
---

**By Melissa Voss, News Editor** _originally published in Issue 11, Volume 30 of The Univeristy Register on Friday, April 27, 2018_

On Monday, April 23 at both 2 p.m. in Science Building Room 3550 and at 7:30 p.m. in Imholte 109, the Native Skywatchers from St. Cloud State University presented on the importance of the teaching and preservation of Ojibwe and Dakota/Lakota star knowledge. The presentation was sponsor ed with part of with the Native American Student Success (NASS) and Summit Scholars - TRIO Student Support Services, a federally funded grant program from the US Department of Education. The focus was on keeping the indigenous cultures alive as Native Starwatcher Director Jim Knuston-Kolodzne and Astrology Student Jessica Heim discussed the purpose behind the Native Skywatchers organization and educated attendees on various constellations through art and storytelling.

Knutoson-Kolodzne is an Anishinabe tribe member from Ottawa who has been the Director of the American Indian Center at St. Cloud State University in St. Cloud for the past fourteen years. He is also a member of the Little River Band of Ottawa Indians in Manistee, MI. Heim is a current graduate student at the University of Wales Trinity St. David studying astronomy and astrology.

Knuston-Kolodne started out the presentation by giving a brief overview of what type of organization the Native Skywatchers were. The Native Skywatchers is lead by Director Annette Lee, an Assistant Professor of Astronomy and Physics at St. Cloud State University. As described by the Native Skywatchers webpage on the St. Cloud State Planetarium website, the mission of the Native Skywatchers is “designed for all educators & persons interested in increasing their knowledge of Ojibwe and Dakota/Lakota Star Knowledge. A new focus this year will include: Earth and Sky, and interdisciplinary STEM connections. Included in the workshop are multiple hands-on activities so participants will be able to experience the culture and the science in the most authentic and meaningful way possible.” With the help of funding by NASA, the Minnesota Space grant, and the Fond du Lac Tribal & Community College, The Native Skywatchers have the opportunity to work with K-12 students, educators, counselors as well as visiting colleges and universities like the University of Minnesota Morris.

So why study the stars through the Ojibwe and Dakota/Lakota culture?  According to National Aeronautics and Space Association (NASA), said Knutson-Kolonde, the indigenous people have looked at the stars since the beginning of their existence; if there is anyone who knows the stars better than anyone it would be the indigenous people, Knutson-Kolonde explained.  
Knutson-Kolonde also explained that now there is a sense of urgency and purpose regarding the preservation of indigenous star knowledge.  The first reason i the urgency of saving Native star knowledge from disappearing due to the fact thatNative elder population is gradually decreasing.  In order to preserve the culture of the Ojibwe and Dakota/Lakota peoples, the Native Starwatchers create educational guides, visual art, and presentations in order to pass down the folklore behind the stars to younger generations via different learning techniques like hands-on planispheres, stories, and educational videos.  The second reason lies behind the new Minnesota state standards require all K-12 teachers to incorporate Dakota/Lakota and Ojibwe perspectives in their curriculum.  This cycles back to preserving the indigenous culture within Minnesota K-12 schools.  In order to keep the cycling of information, as well as diversifying the knowledge being passed down, the Native Skywatchers incorporate a wide variety of elders from various tribes as well as interchanging team members during various presentations.
A primary focus and craft that the Native Skywatchers have is creating star maps portraying the various tribes’ constellations. Each of these star maps are laid on top of the Greek constellation maps to show the relevance of the Ojibwe and Dakota/Lakota constellations.  One of the art styles that the Native Skywatchers use is a combination of both Director Lee’s and her husband, William Wilson. Within the sky star maps, Wilson uses an Ojibwe art technique called “Ex-Ray,” a style of painting emphasizes the inner part of the person or animal, not solely what lies on the surface.  Other star map forms are represented from the Dakota/Lakota culture, where beading is used to create portraits of constellations.  Lee intercooperates her personal art form by surrounding the of Wilson’s star maps as well as using paintings as illustrations as an aid in telling the folklore behind each of the constellations in the Native Skywatchers’ story videos.
Kunuston-Kolodne handed off the presentation to Heim, who showed the constellation’s history through story-based videos created by the Native Skywatchers.  Heim went through a couple of the key star constellations (mostly of the Ojibwe culture) in each of the seasons and explained that the constellations come into the most power during the seasonal presence.  This way of thinking believes that whatever happens in the sky is reflected back on earth.  An example Heim told and presented with a video was the tale of the spring constellation of Curly Tail - the Great Panther who lives at the bottom of lakes and can cause flooding or water danger.  When this water constellation was presented in the spring sky, it was a signalled warning for the people to move off of the lake’s ice before the ice melted and they had the possibility of falling through.  Heim also presented stories from other seasons such as summer’s crane, spring’s exhaused bather, and fall’s moose.  

Lastly, using the application Stellarium, Heim was able to show the various constellations throughout a given time via constellation simulation.  Through time lapse, she showed the various constellations interchanging throughout the times of day, as well as the seasons, as if seen in Morris.

Attendees were also given the opportunity at the end of the evening presentation to make their own planisphere with either the Ojibwe or Dakota/Lakota constellations, allowing users to locate native constellations throughout any season.

_Photo from flickr.com_