---
title: 'MICS Battle Brains and Bots'
media_order: 'MICSGroupPhoto(courtesy of Kai Zang)-min.jpg'
content:
    items:
        - '@self.children'
    limit: 5
    order:
        by: date
        dir: desc
    pagination: true
    url_taxonomy_filters: true
---

**By Michael Small, Writer** _originally published in Issue 11, Volume 30 of The Univeristy Register on Friday, April 27, 2018_

Students from the computer science discipline represented Morris at The Midwest Instruction and Computing Symposium (MICS) at the College of St. Scholastica in Duluth on April 6 and 7. Micsymposium.org says that MICS has been around since 1967, “making it one of the nation's oldest conferences focusing on sharing creative thinking about computer-related issues.” Participation by UMM students broke down into three categories: presentations, robotics, and programming teams.
The UMM students gave presentations about ongoing student research occuring in Morris. Each presentation was given in front of university students and professors in attendance from varying schools in the midwest region. After each presentation, time was allowed for the audience to ask questions and give feedback. Khondoker Prio told The UR he valued this feedback. “I presented my research about the Energy Prediction and maintenance Software and received a lot of good feedback to be even more inspired.” Presentations were categorized from room to room based on a specific field of study.

In the Renewable Resources Research room was “UMM: Power Monitoring and Prediction Software by Yujing Song, Abenezer Monjor, Khondoker Prio.” Their research focus was centered on more efficient ways for UMM to utilize power generated by renewable resources on campus like solar or wind energy. Ryan Policheri and Aaron Smith from the Department of Computer Science in Simpson College were interested in collaborating with the group in the future because their research was along similar lines.

Leonid Scott was put in the Applications room due to his research applying evolutionary computation theory to the design of effective wing shapes. His presentation was titled “The Application of Evolutionary Computation in the Design of Wing Shapes.”

Charlot Shaw was placed in the Software room with his talk “Implementing Novice Friendly Error Messages in Clojure by Charlot Shaw (software demo).” The audience inquired as to why Charlot thought that the programming language Clojure should be taught to new programmers rather than programming languages like Java or Python. Shaw showed with this software demonstration that his redefinition of Clojure’s error messages that the language had the potential to be beginner friendly because better error messages would give the user more constructive feedback than Python or Java error messages.

The robotics portion of the UMM’s group competed in a competition between other schools. Team Black Panther consisting of Prince Nwaonicha and Kai Zang created a robot intended to duel other team's robots. The goal was to build the robot that could capture the other teams robot's flag from their respective base first. The winning robot moves to the next round until only one robot remains a champion. Professor Elena Machkasova weighed in on the robotics portion. “Another successful MICS this year: our brand-new robotics team got 4th place out of 17 teams with only a couple of weeks of working on the robot.”

Nwaonicha said that, “It was super cool getting to see all the different kinds of robots and gave us some cool ideas for next year. I've done robotics in High School but it was my first time working with another person to make the whole robot with limited help. Really, we wouldn't have done so well without the help of Robotics man Kevin Boyd. He was a tremendous help in understanding concepts that were new to us and getting the robot running. Next year for sure we are winning.”

Kai Zang was a newcomer to robotics competitions and worked hard with Nwaonicha to get as far with their robot as they did. 

“I have enjoyed playing robots for a very long time,” he said, “however, it was the first time I actually attended in a competition. Due to the time limitation we worked very hard to catch up. And at the very beginning I didn’t think we would make any thing happen but the result shows that god always blesses people who working hard!”

The programming team consisting of Luz Lopez, Nathan Beneke, and Nwaonicha had three hours to solve a number of programming problems. The programming languages they were allowed to code in were Python and Java and the team chose Java. The team with the most correct answers at the end of the three hours wins, but for each wrong piece of code, points get would be deducted. Teams had no access to the internet, but were allowed to carry books with them for reference. The programming team - Morris’s first to represent the school in the history of the conference - placed 10th out of 44 teams.

In her opinion, Machkasova thought that overall Morris did really well in all aspects, between Team Black Panther placing fourth, the programming team placing tenth, and all three talks having gone “really well.” She remarked, they even “made it back right in time for the [Saturday] Jazz Fest concert!” Students who went were also impressed with what others schools brought to the table. Prio said, “It was wonderful to actually go to a conference where we got to know about all the different research happening in the world of artificial intelligence and machine learning or computer science in general.”
            
_Photo courtesy of Kai Zang_