---
title: '"Terryfold" by Chaos Chaos ft. Justin Roiland'
date: '03-11-2017 00:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
content:
    items: '@self.children'
    limit: '5'
    order:
        by: date
        dir: desc
    pagination: '1'
    url_taxonomy_filters: '1'
---

**By Michael Small, Arts and Entertainment God** _originally published in Issue 4, Volume 30 of the University Register on Friday, November 3, 2017._

To true patricians, the song “Terryfold” is more than just a catchy banter that made it to Billboards’s # 33 for Hot Rock Songs for the week of September 23, 2017. The piece has an unbelievable appeal to sophisticated savants such as myself. Rick and Morty is not a show for the faint of mind and their soundtrack delivers their educated message in a compact two minute and thirty-second wrapper like a treat for those with the most informed palette for entertainment. Contrary to how the drooling public may try to pervert the meaning of the song, the only thing humorous about it is the palpable irony of how the idiots who don’t understand the subtleties of Rick and Morty think that this song is some sort of joke song to play for a cheap laugh. While the song does feature some carefully buried undertones that could be interpreted by patrician Rick and Morty fans like me to be nihilist wisecrackings, the pervading message of the song is much more meaningful than the fart jokes and late-night comedians that the general public eats up. To quote the viral thesis of “To Be Fair, You Have To Have a Very High IQ to Understand Rick and Morty,” the show is much more than a silly cartoon; after all, it airs on Adult Swim. As per the popular internet quote, “the fans understand this stuff; they have the intellectual capacity to truly appreciate the depths of these jokes, to realise that they’re not just funny—they say something deep about LIFE.” To dive into the intellectual depths that this anthem graced Rick and Morty fans with, I shall give you, my dear readers, a firsthand account of how the song graced my virgin ears and awoke a fire in my cold heart. 

The fourth of October had never felt so chilled and lonely to me. While that layout night was surely alive and buzzing with activity of my fellow UR staff, I sat alone at my A&E computer as I lived out the eternal winter that has been my life as a mature adult. My thick skin had long been bruised by scorn and abuse from the many mouth-breathing fools that I had the misfortune of living with as a budding adolescent. They had no idea that when they gave me flak for listening to Rick and Morty, they were like Mr. Meeseeks: bound to serve the man for their entire painful existence. Yet because they never were enlightened enough to watch the series, they will never know that the man’s task is always too lofty to ever be completed. One may suggest that I am like Mr. Meeseeks, bound to this earth in pain until I serve a purpose. But I’m a nihilist like Rick who doesn’t serve the man; I’m an anarcho-communist who knows there is no god. The only thing I preach is the lessons that Justin Roiland and Dan Harmon’s show teaches this post-reason society. While you could say I was “saved” by their show, it wasn’t until I heard “Terryfold” that I broke out of the ice that was holding me back until that fourth of October. 

At about 1AM, as I was crafting my section, the musical prophet Christian Pfeiffer bestowed upon my ears the message of “Terryfold.” His previous efforts to thaw my nihilist heart with his favorite jazz songs during the late hours of the last layout night were well intentioned but off the mark. This time he followed through with an absolute gem. I hadn’t been able to watch Season 3 of Rick and Morty because my laptop broke and I unfortunately have to feed myself first before I can buy a new Rick and Morty machine. I had become so accustomed to the majestic voice of Justin Roiland that I was caught off-guard. The lyrics “Grab my terryfold flaps/Grab my flappy folds/Grab my terry folds/ Grab my foldy flaps” swelled up feelings I had almost forgotten. “Hey, touch my foldy flaps/Grab my terryfolds/Grab my foldy holds/Grab my terry flaps/In my terryfolds/Grab my terry flaps/You gotta touch ’em… my terryfolds” came in before I could begin to even comprehend the previous verse. The interpretation of the song thus far is already obvious to real Rick and Morty fans. Before opportunity folds on me, I must grab ahold of my fate. “Hey, did you ever wanna hold a terryfold?” Well yes, I did. I’ve always wanted to grab ahold of life but I never had any agency until I was graced with this song. “Hey, I wanna take you to the terryfold dance.” This line is an obvious allusion to the idiom “It takes two to tango” that Ronald Reagan cited during Soviet-American tensions amid a rise of new Soviet leadership. Anyone with enough of a brain to watch Rick and Morty would understand the historic context of the moment. The world was on the eternal brink of nuclear war, just like it is now, and brave leadership was needed by capitalists and communists alike. Roiland’s obvious invitation with that line is to awaken the next communist revolution. 

“Fuck you (fuck you)/You stupid dumb motherfucking bitch (Aaah Aaah)” is an obvious inside joke by Roiland. He knows that anyone who is an avid fan and consumer of his show is an intellectual being. “I got a flappy foldy flap/I’m gonna go take you to food/Gonna eat, then we’re going to the terryfold dance (dance)/You and me/We’re gonna go to the terryfold place/It’s gonna be a night out/Gonna have a real fancy time” is perhaps the most elusive passage to draw meaning from, although an astute listener and fan would be quick to catch up. “I’m gonna go take you to food,” upon inspection, is a not so subtle reference to the collectivization of agriculture. In fact, I have no idea how it couldn’t be read that way. The proletariat are “gonna eat” and then go to the terryfold dance where two world powers will spar for the final time. It takes two to tango. It’s gonna be a fancy “night out,” and by “night” they surely meant a revolution that will pick up overnight. It’s about damn time we dismantle capitalism. Seriously, do you know how much a new laptop costs? Thanks, Obama!
