---
title: 'Urban Exploration: Exploring Abandoned Places'
date: 27-04-18
---

**By Ben Mladenich, Staff Writer** _uploaded at 3:01 p.m. on Friday, April 27, 2018_

Actionsquad.org is the name of a website based in Minneapolis. The site is predominantly red and black, and each item on its menu has a traditional anarchist “A.” Embossed at the bottom are the words ‘since 1996.’ Clicking on one of the many A’s reveals a list of photographs uploaded by the site’s audience. These photographs are filled with rubble, crumbling architecture, and “keep out” signs. The photographs define one of this generation’s newest pastimes: Urban exploration.

Urban exploration is the act of exploring places that are abandoned. Many explorers seek out ghost towns, old factories, office buildings, homes and more in pursuit of… adventure? Most often it seems that there is no particular reason for venturing into such places except the curiosity to see what is inside. Though occasionally explorers find interesting or valuable items inside of the places they explore, most seem to opt to leave them be, either keeping their hobby as a hobby, or attempting to evade theft charges should they be caught by police while exploring. That being said, urban explorers that post their experiences online are unlikely to be the first ones to enter abandoned buildings. Before them are waves of vandals and thieves who try to salvage and steal what they can out of the buildings. Any possession that can easily fetch money is usually taken, as well as copper pipes and raw materials from older buildings. In their search for items to sell, many thieves leave objects strewn all around the property in their rush for material.

That being said, urban exploration is an excellent opportunity for photography. The locations explored are usually unique to the explorer at any given point and capture either decay or the perfect, unhidden representation of how some people lived. In some cases, buildings have been left untouched, exactly the same as the day they were abandoned. Previous vandals also leave graffiti, which is sometimes interesting on its own. Especially when you account for the occasional horror themed addition.

Urban exploration is also a very dangerous hobby. Places explored might be in states of partial collapse and filled with dangerous substances. Other people might also be inhabiting the abandoned buildings and, on several occasions, videos posted to these groups on Youtube show interactions with these people. Sometimes, urban explorers run into the middle of drug operations. Other times, urban explorers find out about things that they might wish they hadn’t. One video shows a man exploring an abandoned mausoleum only to find the remains, in skeleton form, inside a coffin tucked into one of the back rooms. After this encounter, the police were called.

One offshoot of traditional urban exploration, which takes place in cities, is the exploration of buildings far off the beaten path. Some of these buildings are hundreds of miles off the grid, through either desert roads or twisting mountain paths. Some are not even available on regular roads, forcing the explorers to hike through them. Though these are certainly more secluded with a lesser chance of being disrupted, the danger associated with these explorations is somewhat higher. There is a lower chance of a stranded or injured explorer being able to reach or call for help.

Urban exploration has, of course, lawless origins. The act of entering the properties is illegal in most instances, unless permission is granted from the property owners, which is unlikely. It would probably be most accurate to say that the vast majority of urban explorations are illegal, even when it is specified that they are not stealing or vandalising the property. Though urban exploration occupies a dubious legal situation, it seems that the popularity of the hobby is growing, especially when social media content is taken into account. Though it seems unlikely that it will ever become fully mainstream, the videos and pictures published by explorers might serve as the big break for the hobby. However, it seems unlikely it will ever become a dinner table subject.

_Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons_