---
title: 'Turk urges to view writing as more than just a skill'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - featured
---

**By Melissa Voss, News Editor** _Originally published in Issue 3, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, October 12, 2018_

It is no surprise that writing has become a learning focal point in universities nationwide.  But to former Morris professor Tisha Turk, writing in college is not just a valuable skill for students to develop over their college career, but a medium that allows personal interest to be interwoven with the writing process in order for students to connect more with what they are writing.  In her Founding Scholars talk, “What is Writing For?” given on September 27 in the Cow Palace, Turk addressed the common misconceptions of what makes writing a skill as well as redefining the purpose of writing both in and out of the classroom.

According to the Founders Scholar Forum on the Liberal Arts page of the University of Minnesota Morris website, “The Founders Fund was established with gifts from a private donor in honor of the founding faculty of the University of Minnesota, Morris on the occasion of UMM’s 40th birthday.  Founders Scholar Forums on the Liberal Arts bring together panels of students and faculty members to answer essential questions related to the liberal arts and to the academy.”

Turk opened her talk by addressing the question students are often asked: is writing important?  General response that she has gotten has been yes, but whether or not students actually need a class to learn writing is another topic all together.   She addressed that students find that learning how to write means developing good communication skills.  For academic institutions, teaching students how to write well is one of their goals, believing that writing is a necessary skill.  This statement, for Turk, is seen as fair, but unhelpful.

Liberal arts institutions see writing as a useful skill for the future of students across all majors a skill they can use when addressing future employers.  In these terms, writing is not just a valuable skill but a marketable one as well.  Written communication has become a major part of the workplace, with over 50% of American adults use writing in the workplace.  

Based on this information, Turk agrees that writing is a valuable skill, but the definition of writing as a skill needs to be rewritten.  According to Turk, she and her area of study, composition studies, have been grappling at this for years.  Quoting from Karl Dykema in his essay “The Problem of Freshman English in the Liberal Arts College," the primary use of writing courses, specifically freshman writing courses, is, “stimulate and assist the student to a more accurate, logical and effective expression of concepts which lead to the development of critical capacity and intellectual independence.”  Within the University of Minnesota Morris systems, intellectual independence is used as the intellectual and practical skills that the university prepares students for. 

She continued discussing Dykema, stating that the secondary skill is mastery of these practical skills, or mechanics.  The purpose of mechanics being secondary is that it has the potential to destroy the curious, imaginary spirits of student writers.  Students who become masters of mechanical skills become “excellent typists,” not so much good writers.  The thought of defining mechanics such as good punctuation, proper spelling, and grammar leads to students thinking they can not write.  Turk mentions that this also becomes a “democratic, global” question about gender, class, and race when it comes to writing, or more specifically, literacy.  This emphasis on mechanics distracts writers away from the purpose of writing, degrading the complexity of thinking that goes on when individuals write.

Turk moved on by seeing writing less of a mechanical skill and more of an evolutionary skill.  To Turk, mechanics do matter, that “clear, concise, error-free prose can have value in the workplace and outside it.” But Turk likes to think of writing less as a skill and more as a process.  Quoting author Mike Rose, Turk explains thatwriting is a “complex ability,” something that continually develops as one practices new tasks with new materials.  Turk “unpacks” what Rose means by explaining that writing is important by three central areas of compositions studies: because it is a process, a way of learning, and that it is social.

For writing being a process, Turk states that the process is not always linear.  There are drafts of drafts - writers change their minds, changing these, sometimes going in circles.  Turk explains that this makes writing more about thinking rather than just writing; writers are exploring, developing and expressing rather than strictly writing.  Writing becomes something you do, like hugging, crying, reaching out for help, instead of something that just happens.

Writing can also be a way of learning more about a material; it is facts, relationship's with other materials, distinguishing materials from one another, presenting persuasive discoveries in the materials effectively, and finding particular language to address the material, for Turk this is a way of gaining “imaginative control of the material we want to teach.”  This transforms writing from a learning outcome to a learning tool; teaching students how to think critically, solve problems, analyse materials, create projects, etc.

Writing has become a social interaction between writers and readers alike.  Commonly mistaken for an act done in solidarity, writing becomes a communal way of writing because writers do not solely write for themselves, but for readers.  Writers also have the ability to build off of other writers; agreeing, disagreeing or building off of other people’s work builds a community in everyday life either through social media or work.

Lastly, Turk drew back on her initial question: “What is writing for?”  She based this question off of a 2001 Harvard study of undergraduate writing led by Nancy Sommers and Laura Salts.  In their research, freshmen who saw themselves as “novices” in writing were the most capable of learning and expanding their growth in their writing abilities.  A second finding, which Turk finds more interesting, is the fact that students who saw writing more than an assignment were able to “sustain an interest in academic writing throughout the course of their undergraduate career.”  Often called the carry-over effect, bringing one’s personal interest into their writing gives the piece a sense of purpose and meaning.  This idea of adding personal interest to one’s writing does not always improve it, but it changes the writer’s perception and thoughts about what writing means to them.

To answer her initial question of “What is writing for?” Turk pitched a few possibilities on what writing can mean to other writers: for discovery, asking our own questions, making knowledge, thinking about thinking and how we write the way we do, enhancing and rendering experiences, connecting with other people, connecting life with academics, making sense of our lives and making beautiful things, and so much more.

In conclusion, Turk found that the question of “What is writing for?” is too general of a question for students.  Rather, she asked students the question “What does this writing mean to you?”