---
title: 'Terra Madre: food sovereignty at home and around the world'
media_order: TerraMadre_new.jpg
date: '16-11-2018 00:00'
---

**By Trey Goodsell, Staff Writer** _Originally published in Issue 6, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, November 16, 2018_

Identifying edible native plants, being able to hunt, passing on knowledge of food to your descendants. All of these are important aspects of food sovereignty, yet all remain in danger of being erased as culture and markets converge across the world. 

For Native American Heritage Month, the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Intercultural Exchange; the Circle of Nations Indigenous Association; the American Indian Science and Engineering Society, and the Native American Student Success Program hosted Linda Black Elk, an ethnobotanist and lecturer at Sitting Bull College in Fort Yates, North Dakota. She has dedicated her life to raising awareness of and creating opportunities for food sovereignty. 

Food sovereignty is a broad concept, defined as the right of people to have access to healthy and culturally appropriate food, define food and agricultural systems for themselves, and preserve traditional knowledge and relationships with nature and place. Black Elk defined food sovereignty through stories elders shared with her, the experiences her friends have had around the world in times of conflict, and the changes wrought by policy toward Indigenous peoples in the United States, policy that has done immense harm to traditional knowledge and all-around well being. 

Food systems in America, according to Black Elk, are damaging to the mental, physical, and spiritual well-being of Americans. Foods high in preservatives, fats, sugars, simple carbohydrates, and herbicides are a cause of the increase in illness vectors such as depression, dementia, and obesity. Extremity in food choices is driven somewhat by entertainment, says Black Elk, but there are many factors outside of people’s individual control constraining the adoption of healthier alternatives.  The American food system is driven by the outsize economic incentives borne of corporate control of food systems, incentives ranging from payments to stores for how food is arranged on their shelves, enticing kids toward unhealthy but tasty foods, to the power of the various ingredient lobbies to get their product in to popular foods, such as food dyes. 

Policy toward Indigenous peoples in the U.S. has led to great loss of traditional practices, including stories and food. When the Army Corporation of Engineers dammed the Missouri River, it destroyed the land those on the Standing Rock Reservation still had access to. Along with the land went the plants and the wildlife, leaving the people unable to feed themselves with traditional practices and foods. The people came to rely on the commodities program administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which provided heavily processed foods such as flour, sugar, lard, canned meat, and what is known colloquially as “commodity cheese.” Indigenous people were forced to transition to these foods overnight, without the long period of adoption European communities had when developing these foods. Indigenous people ended up with far higher rates of obesity, diabetes, heart disease, and mental health disorders than that of their colonizers, but the less obvious ailment was the loss of traditional knowledge because it could no longer be practiced.
Black Elk provided examples of traditional knowledge of food that illustrate ingenuity and deep cultural meaning. Indigenous people in the Great Plains of North America routinely used chokecherries in their diet, despite the toxicity of the cyanide in their seeds. As tempting as it may be to attribute the knowledge to trial and error on the part of Indigenous people, Black Elk claims that it should be attributed to their ingenuity and systems of knowing.  Indigenous people took their time, experimented, and developed methods for preparing food, skills that characterize all fields of Indigenous knowledge. 

How that knowledge is shared is another skill. Black Elk shared the story of an elder that, as a boy, loved buffaloberries. He first had them in a pie at the end of the season, necessitating a long wait for them to be in season the following year. Once they were ripe, he annoyed his sister into making a pie with them. Exasperated, she obliged, provided he went out and collected a gallon of them. Buffaloberry bushes are filled with thorns, however, which he chose to endure while picking. 

Once completed, the elder returned to his sister and set to work bandaging his hands, which were so pained as to make it difficult to bend his fingers. He set to waiting for the pie after that, but before it was done, two elders called upon his family’s house looking for him. They had noticed him picking buffaloberries and wanted to know if he wanted to come help them pick some. With reluctance, he agreed to. On the drive back to the field, he was swept up in imagining the pain of picking more berries, so much so that he missed their arrival to the field. Only once they had gotten out, with a broom and blanket in hand, did he realize they would not be picking the berries by hand. The elders laid the blanket under the bush, and gave it many whacks with the broom. All in all, they collected 10 gallons of berries, relatively painlessly. 

The elder never forgave his sister for leaving him in ignorance, but the story is certainly memorable, and that quality is key to preserving food sovereignty. Food systems are rife with meaning, describing our relationships and obligations to the natural world and the places we inhabit. Stories transmit values, tools, and knowledge more generally. Hearing a story is activating culture, and they come with connections of all kinds. 

The list of food woes is long, but people are organizing to undo it. Black Elk has worked within a growing movement of food sovereignty activists, a movement with a strong indigenous and international character called the Slow Food Movement. Meeting every two years in Northern Italy, the movement wants to “[unite] the pleasures of food with responsibility, sustainability, and harmony with nature.” At their most recent meeting, Black Elk partook of foods that had been grown or caught in the Mediterranean, such as oysters, local tomato varieties, and wine. Italy being home to the movement is very emblematic of food sovereignty, with local markets in small villages remaining the norm for people’s food needs, and strong citizen control over what their government policy does or does not promote. 

Threatening to be lost in these discussions held by activists in academics is the food insecurity of various vulnerable groups, the rural, the poor, and the marginalized, whose existence is more lean and often do not get a choice about what they eat. Black Elk focused on this at the end of her time in the context of what the average college student can do. She encourages students to find the time to learn about local foods and meals and the money to eat them. But barring that, even adding something as simple as nettles or kale to their macaroni and cheese is a valuable step toward repudiating the dominant food system here in the U.S. 

Interviewed after the lecture, Black Elk went further, acknowledging the difficulty rural communities in particular have with food access. “It’s hard to set up a farmer’s market in these rural communities. It’s even more expensive to purchase those items. I can’t even afford them usually,” she said. Incrementalism was important for transitioning every community to adopting local foods, through education, through managing the natural environment, and changing over the capital and labor required to support the transition.
Questioned about the value of incrementalism, Black Elk said “I found that it is the most effective way to make change in younger communities. Especially in communities where students, young people, find it very hard or do not have the foundational knowledge from their people and their culture in order to make big changes in their life.” 

While the big picture is hard to grasp, Black Elk is sure that these small measures, and teaching people broadly about food sovereignty, will lead to measurable changes in what and how we eat. 

_photo above courtesy of UMM Flickr_