---
title: '2018 Spring Dance Ensemble: I Wanna Dance With Somebody'
date: 04/28/2018
---

**By Desmond Homan, Variety Editor** _originally published in Issue 11, Volume 30 of The University Register on Friday, April 27, 2017_

On Friday, April 20 and Saturday, April 21, the production of Dance Ensemble returned for their Spring 2018 show, “I Wanna Dance With Somebody.” This show happened to be the last show on the Edson stage, as the auditorium will be renovated before the Fall. Dance Ensemble ensured that both the stage and semester itself would end with a bang. 23 different songs were featured, including the production reprise at the very end. The weekend was filled with high-energy and a respectable amount of the students, family, friends, and alumni, gathered to watch what is probably one of the biggest performance the campus holds each semester. Because of its popularity, Dance Ensemble is held to pretty high expectations on campus, yet continues to exceed those expectations thanks to the hard work of dedicated members offering a handful of pleasant surprises for the audience. 

Those who participated in Dance Ensemble’s show, whether they were dancers, choreographers, or both, put in an incredible amount of effort to keep the show running smoothly. Of course, dancers practice rigorously, as would any athlete or musician. Preparing for the show required individuals to work on both the physical and mental aspects of dancing. Hannah Fussy, who has spent three semesters with Dance Ensemble, reflected upon pushing her mind and body to learn faster and more challenging moves than in previous shows, but stated, “that is exactly what I asked the choreographers to help me work on, so I am very satisfied with my improvement!” 

The choreographers themselves also had to work extremely hard to create dances that were intricate, but not overly-difficult. When it comes down to the basics of the process, choreography is creating art and helping others to replicate it, meaning that it is important to have strong connections with one’s dancers. Kari Gillette choreographed for the song “Coffins” by MisterWives and despite not having as much experience with dance or choreography as many of the other member in Dance Ensemble, she created a spectacular performance which she credits to her hard-working dancers. When asked about the process behind “Coffins,” Gillette claimed, “Before I started Dance Ensemble here, I hadn’t been on a dance team or in classes since middle school and since my level of choreographing is beginner, I don’t have the same expertise on different moves. That being said, I had amazing dancers and they made this experience to be much more than I ever thought it could be. The dance itself turned out much better than what I first envisioned. It was really brought to life and I couldn’t be happier with how it was portrayed by my dancers.” 
Ruby DeBellis, the co-chair of DE, agrees that these connections are very important, stating “I’ve been in Dance Ensemble for 4 years and it has been one of the most rewarding experiences I’ve had at UMM. Dancing with other students brings us together in a way that no other activity does. Everyone is so positive and supportive. I feel like I’ve made lifelong friends through my time in DE.”

What was possibly the highlight of the show, however, was the BROZ dance, a Morris tradition going back several years. The BROZ dance, a laid-back staple of every Dance Ensemble performance, was especially exciting this semester due to the fact that it was a grand return for the BROZ. They were unable to perform during the fall 2017 show because so many of the participants had graduated the spring before and not enough new members were recruited to fill the spaces left behind. Luckily, they were able to perform again this semester. Tiernan Lenius explained, “the lack of previous BROZ made for a huge push from the rest of the DE community, former BROZ, and the few BROZ that were left to revive the dance. Without the BROZ, people agreed that DE just didn’t feel right.” The audience was glad to welcome them back with generous applause. 

When asked what they expect or hope for moving forward, some of the Dance Ensemble members brought up their excitement to work with a variety of new choreographers or even try their hands at some of their own choreography. For those who will be continuing with Dance Ensemble in the future, they will taking the skills they’ve built up from this semester along with previous shows in order to blow us away in the future. As for the graduating Dance Ensemble members, we have seen the vast extent of their talent, and can only hope future members will carry on this greatness.