---
title: 'Mourning about death: Distinguished Visiting Professor Allan Kellehear on death and dying'
date: '16-11-2018 00:00'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
        - featured
---

**By Melissa Voss, News Editor** _Originally published in Issue 6, Volume 31 of The University Register on Friday, November 16, 2018_

Death is a part of natural human life.  Every single person on the earth will come to face death and the dying process, but it is not commonly discussed in everyday life.  When people actually think about death, it is rarely about their own, but in the manner of everyone else.  But for Allan Kellehear, PhD, FAcSS, this an everyday topic of conversation.  Kellehear, a medical and public health sociologist with an emphasis and interest of death, dying, and the dying process, gave a short history lesson of dying in his presentation “Death Dying and Bereavement: A Very Short History” as part of the University of Minnesota Morris’ Distinguished Visiting Professorship in the Liberal Arts.

Kellehear splits the 1.5 million year span of human existence in three time frames.  The first is the pre-history period, which began in the stone age 1.5 million years ago.  The second being pre-industry period, the period between the pre-history period and the last ice age.   Lastly, the industrial period, the time between the last ice age to the present.

The talk itself is divided off into twelve topics: causes of death, life expectancy, who dies, dying trajectory, death scene, exposure, preparations, relationship context, mourning, place of death, and locus of control.  Kellehear describes all of the topics more in depth and demonstrates how each of them were practiced in each of the three time frames of human history.

Causes of death in the pre-history period were often caused by trauma.  Kellehear described traumatic deaths as sudden and survival based, with examples such as falling off of a cliff, animal predation and childbirth.  For the pre-industrial period, death was caused by acute infectious diseases such as the plague, tuberculosis, yellow fever, and syphilis.  This was due to the confinement of people and animals in settled, non-moving societies, making it easier for germs and diseases to spread.  In the industrial period, as humans began to have a longer life expectancy, chronic diseases became the primary cause of death; not because of a single disease, but rather, as Kellehear describes it, “many diseases stacked up on top of each other...combined.”

Life expectancy of humans also changed throughout the three periods by steadily increasing.  Pre-historic humans were only expected to live until till their teens, where Neandertal “men” were only 18.  Pre-industrial humans slightly increased from having very short life spans to short, increasing the life expectancy to one’s 20s.  Now in the industrial age, Kellehear says humans have reached a long life span to the 70s and 80s, something that has only been possible within the last hundred years.

What age demographic actually dies throughout the period is also inconsistent.  Where pre-historic and pre-industrial age infants and children were often the victims of common death, the change to the elderly and the poor was a recent change in the past hundred years.  

The dying trajectory, or how long it took for one to die, varies a lot.  Kellehear focused heavily on the idea of dying as a process going on even after an individual is dead.  Although a common practice in the pre-historic and pre-industrial periods, Kellehear emphasized the religious means that when someone is physically dead that it is the death of one’s identity in the human world, but not the death of the body.  Various religions and cultures believe that it takes another six months to a year for a soul to battle and face trials in order to reach one of three roads: to live forever and become a god; for your own soul to “die” and then become reincarnated into an animal or another human; or be an ancestor and look after your people.  Because of this, pre-historic societies often believed that the dying trajectory would take place six months to a year after an individual’s physical death.  Pre-industrial societies would have shorter deaths that would slowly eat away at an individual overtime, giving the physical appearance of being deathly or sickly.  In modern times, dying again comes over a long period of time.  This phenomenon is practically due to the internal chronic diseases such as cancer and dementia.

The death scene, place of death, mourning, and the exposure of a body post death really go hand-in-hand.  For the pre-historic period, seeing death was not uncommon and could happen anywhere.  Groups of people would see you die, or even die with you depending on the cause of death.  Kellehear stated that it was common for pre-historic humans to see bodies with missing limbs and splattered with blood.  Going into the pre-industrial period, seeing death was still primarily common.  Settlement societies would have visitations to the dead’s home to say farewell or attempt to hear the dying’s perception on what the afterlife holds as they are nearing death.  It has become only recent that death has become isolated.  With the growing popularity of hospitals in the 20th century, death occurred in isolation due to the hospitals “drawing of the curtains” in order to keep the positive statistics of the hospital high.  Increasing popularity of hospice care has also made death less societal and public.

Preparations for death vary throughout the periods due to the presence or lack of religious influence.  Kellehear discusses that in the pre-historic and pre-industrial periods, religion played a heavy role due to the expectation of the afterlife.  Examples would include prayer, receiving sacraments, calling a priest, or providing tools that will potentially help them through trials of the afterlife.  In the modern industry period, religion has been on the decline and, according to Kellehear, humanity has become more materialistic.  Wills have been a commodity in the industrial period due to humanity accumulating things more than ever in human history and that they find a need to distribute it.

Wills also draw into the relationship context of death.  According to Kellehear, unlike the previous periods that focus on fulfilling the duty of an individual’s dying wishes, industrial period humans have become more sentimental.  Kellehear backs up this statement by pointing to love; that with love, the trust between two individuals evaporates due to sentimentality.  The curation of the will, a middle class, urban, individualized, recent product, is to give the deceased personal control post-death.

Lastly, diagnosis and the locus of control address how death is certified and validated.  In the pre-historic period, Kellehear states that because a majority of deaths are sudden that the community would validate the death.  Pre-industrial humans validated death because it was self-detected; an example of this would be if one were to feel severely ill.  Now, in the industrial period, medical professions and the State are ones who validate death.  Kellehear explains that today, without medical certification by the medical profession, one cannot self diagnose and be believed.  He goes on to explain that this takes away an individual’s control over their own death because, relating back to the place of death and exposure, the State and medical profession have gained control on what and where death is depicted as.

To wrap up his presentation, Kellehear summarized five main areas of sociological factors that changed the way we experience and perceive dying: public health changes (sanitation, clean water, housing); interpersonal changes (increase in privacy, growth of single income families, increase in sentimentality, waning from religious influences); gentrification (increase and spread of middle class policy); professionalism (doctors, lawyers, funerals); and economic changes (primacy of consumption over production).

Kellehear also released a book “A Social History of Dying”  in 2007 that goes more in-depth of how death, social responsibility, and death-related sciences have changed throughout the course of human history.

_photo above courtesy of UMM Flickr_