---
title: 'Aronson Gives Talk on Fake News in Early Modern Spain'
media_order: FakeNews_new.jpg
date: '09-02-2018 14:19'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - article
---

**By Joshua Schlenner, News Editor** _uploaded at 2:19 p.m. on Friday, February 9, 2018_

On Thursday, February 1, Professor Stacey Parker Aronson gave a presentation entitled “Female Criminality and ‘Fake News’ in Early Modern Spain” at 5:00 p.m. in Imholte 109. Aronson is currently the Intern Chair of the Humanities Division at The University of Minnesota Morris and specializes in the spanish language and spanish literature. She began her current research by analyzing how modern literature portrays the repercussions of rape. Over time, her research has led her to the focus of her presentation: the “pliegos sueltos poéticos”, known in english as “broadsheets”, of early modern Spain. 

In order to show her audience a modern equivalent of the early modern broadsheet, Aronson shared an image of the front cover of a 1997 issue of the american tabloid Weekly World News. Accompanied by an image of a deformed child with bat-like features were the large bold words “Bat Child Found in Cave”. Aronson explained that the early modern broadsheets were single sheets of paper with stories and illustrations similar to those of the aforementioned bat child. Reaching the peak of their popularity during the 17th and 18th centuries, broadsheets were sold on the streets by various vendors. Unlike the modern tabloid, however, the stories written on broadsheets were accepted as true by the general public. The stories would often tell of real places, people, or events and were frequently written and distributed anonymously. This, coupled with the limitations of the time period, made proving the incredibility of the stories difficult. Aronson told her audience that “they may be true, they may be false, but they had the appearance of truth.”

Over the centuries, thousands of broadsheets were preserved within a handful of libraries across Europe, including those in Milan, Italy; Lisbon, Portugal; and Krakόw, Poland. Additionally, a number of wealthy european families collected broadsheets, which were eventually dispersed to the aforementioned libraries and anthropologists alike as part of their post-mortem inventories. The broadsheets on which Aronson conducted her research were found in the National Library of Spain in Madrid and The British Library in London. 

Within these libraries, the broadsheets were sewn together to make hundreds of books. Aronson explained how the broadsheets had never been compiled into a proper online database and so she was forced to page through each book and take pictures of all broadsheets pertaining to her research. After returning to Morris, Aronson transcribed each broadsheet she had photographed into a number of online documents for her personal organization. Since then, she has used the broadsheets in a number of different research projects. 

The early modern broadsheets most often told stories that contained various degrees of crime, gore, and adventure. “Sometimes I think the writers were tasked with seeing just how much deviance they could cram into these [stories],” Aronson explained to her audience. She believes that it was due to such deviance that the broadsheets were highly appealing to the general public despite their price. Beside the imaginative stories, the broadsheets were accompanied by imaginative illustrations, which widened the appeal of the broadsheet to the illiterate. Such illustrations were often of animals, mothers and children, or mythological creatures. Otherwise, the illustrations were of common wood carvings that could be bought in several stores. 

Aronson’s current line of research began when she shared a number of documents with a student from The University of Minnesota Morris for her to organize. The student found that a number of the broadsheets she had been given followed the same basic story structure: a woman is captured by muslim turks, she is offered marriage, she willingly converts to Islam, and finally she either converts back to christianity or she suffers. After identifying the common structure, Aronson searched for more stories that shared the simple structure. During her presentation, she analyzed a particular story called “Curious ballad detailing a marvelous happening and prodigious case that occurred in the City of Viterbo on January 1 of this present year, in which a soulless woman murdered her husband and her aunt and tore out their hearts so that she could lie with her young lover with whom she escaped. They fell into the hands of Muslims, he was killed and she captured and of the fortuitous ending she had because of the devotion of the Virgin of Remedies…”

The story follows Camila, a young woman who lost both her parents at a young age and now lives with her aunt. She falls in love and has sex with a nameless man. A few days later, her aunt arranges for her to marry a nobleman. When she resists, her aunt invites the nobleman into their home and allows him to brutally rape Camila. That night, she murders both the nobleman and her aunt in their sleep and rips their hearts out. She and her lover then run away only to be captured by muslim turkish pirates. Her lover is killed in the skirmish and Camila is taken to Constantinople as a slave. Her master falls in love with her and she agrees to marry him. 

After a few days, Camila requests that she be allowed to cannibalize the other christian captives. Her husband is too fearful to object. Before she is able to kill them, however, she sees a vision of the Virgin Mary and is reminded of the power of God. She then repents and tears out her own heart as a means of atonement. In the end, she is allowed entrance into heaven. 

During her summary of the narrative, Aronson explained that the muslim turks in the story are written as being polite and caring toward Camila despite her status as a slave. In particular, Camila’s marriage with her master is written to be perfectly healthy by modern standards. Aronson noted that it was common amongst the works she examined for the muslim turks to be written in such a way. She believes it is due to the fact that the stories were never truly about the turks but rather about the captive’s conversion to islam and therefore emphasis on the turks themselves was never required. 

Aronson explained that, at the time, any christian woman who married a muslim man and converted to islam would be given rights equivalent to those of her husband. As a result, it was not uncommon for women to run away to Constantinople. These women were known at the time as “renegades”. In the stories of such renegades, such as Camila’s, it was the willing conversion that was vilified so strongly. Emphasis need not be placed upon the turks for the evil of the conversion was what angered the readers. Aronson believes that Camila’s story was intended to serve as a cautionary tale. She explained that the “voluntary conversion to Islam was such a heinous crime that everything else paled in comparison to it.” 

Aronson further explained that the reader had an expectation for a renegade to be punished in some way. In the case with Camila, however, she explains that the emphasis on the conversion detracts from the rape of the character and keeps the story from ever addressing her trauma. Aronson remarked that “the silencing of her voice unwittingly silenced the crime committed against her.”

**Image Credit:** _Weekly World News_
