---
title: 'Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Trans-kaban'
date: '09-10-2020 16:32'
---

**By Desmond Homann, Variety Editor** _Originally published in Issue 3, Volume 33 of The University Register on October 9, 2020_

_Trigger warning: mentions of transphobia and homophobia, mentions of conversion therapy and violence._

For the sake of my general sanity, I try to avoid people who are openly homophobic, transphobic, etc. on social media. I don’t owe anyone my attention or a debate, so I don’t feel bad blocking people who are directing hate toward me and those like me. I’ve had J.K. Rowling, the author of the “Harry Potter” series, blocked for a good long while now, as she is VERY open about her thoughts about people like me, constantly arguing that transgender people are violent and deceitful. I could go on for days about the harmful views of transgender people, especially trans women, made by people like Rowling, but this editorial would never end if I did. For the purpose of discussing her comments, I would group Rowling’s and her follower’s transphobia into three categories: general stereotypes, relation to sexual orientation, and implications of violence (AKA the “bathroom debate.”)

The first of these categories is relatively straightforward, even for people who are not transgender or are not familiar with issues relating to gender. I don’t think I need to go into great depth when I say that, obviously, there are stereotypes about people whose identities are outside of the norm, and often these stereotypes are harmful. Moving into these other two categories brings us to more specific stereotypes, both of which Rowling has been very vocal about lately. For this editorial, however, I’d like to talk mainly about her most recent take on queer identities.

A week or two ago, J.K. Rowling took to social media to voice her support for an online store that sells t-shirts, mugs, pins, and related items. The catch, though, was that these items featured a confusing collection of proudly transphobic messages. Some of these messages came as no surprise to me, such as “trans women are men” and “f*ck your pronouns.” Yes, these are transphobic and harmful, but as a trans person myself, I have to say that these are not the most creative insults I’ve heard about those in my community. 

There were some items that did surprise me though: the two mugs I saw pictures of were “proud transphobe” and “member of ‘Terf’” and… maybe it’s just because I value respect and general human decency, but I can’t wrap my head around why someone would own these items. The first, identifying the user as a “proud transphobe” is like a shirt saying “hey, I’m racist!” across the front in bold letters. This is not to say that violence and hate in a racial context is the same as in the context of gender, but simply an example of how dumb this merchandise is. The second mug, “member of ‘Terf’,” is the one that really makes me roll my eyes. For those who do not know, TERF is an acronym meaning “Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminist” or someone who thinks transgender women are not included in acts of feminism. TERF is an acronym describing a type of person, not an organization. I am not a “member of transgender” or a “member of green eyes.” Okay, I could see if they were maybe trying to create an opposing idea to someone being a member of the LGBT community, as LGBT is also an acronym, but the acronym is describing or labeling the community. I apologize, making fun of the terrible grammar of these bigots is not the point I originally wanted to make, but it goes to show how unsubstantial their attacks are.

At the point when I saw Rowling’s statement and this promoted merchandise, I had already heard enough of her bullshit to be unphased by this. As you can see, I even had a good laugh at how weak it all was. That being said, comments such as these can be harmful and triggering to members of the LGBT community, and I cannot speak for everyone in terms of being desensitized or unbothered. In fact, only a few months ago seeing Rowling’s transphobia bothered me much more than this! One of the most harmful things I saw in this merchandise was the argument that transitioning and gender confirmation practices (medical, social, or legal) are a form of conversion therapy. One thing that many transphobes believe is that transgender men are simply confused lesbians and transgender women are confused gay men, and that by transitioning, the world is losing a lesbian or gay person. It would be a whole separate editorial or paper to explain the full depth of how wrong this is. (Hey! This is something that I actually covered in my senior seminar! Just proof that, if angry enough, I could write on this for 20+ pages!) Again, I cannot speak for every transgender person, but I think it is pretty clear where the problem lies here. Gender and sexuality are two entirely separate facets of identity AND not every trans person is attracted to the opposite gender post-transition. 

Even by some uninformed stretch of the imagination, if I were to attempt to follow their logic as a joke, the argument falls apart anyway: a transphobic argument would say that, as a trans man, I had started as a lesbian and then gotten confused and thought I was a straight man, thus eliminating one gay person (old me) from the world! Oh no! How homophobic of me, so much so that I make Mike Pence look like Liberace! (I am joking, of course.) The truth of the matter is that, before I was out as a man, I was not a lesbian. I was attracted to men. After coming out and living as a transgender man, my sexuality has not changed and I am still attracted to men. By their logic, did I just gift the world a new gay person? No, I am and have always been the same person, though there was a time where I was called a different name and looked a bit different. J.K. Rowling and the nonsense she spews don’t make me feel bad about being myself, and all I can do now is share a good laugh with my queer friends about how strange and unsupported transphobic arguments are. But then again, what were we supposed to expect from a writer who named her token Asian character Cho Chang?